2
SUMMARY DIALOGUE ON CPU VIRTUALIZATION
Professor: And what about the policies on top of those mechanisms — any
interesting lessons there?
Student: Some lessons to be learned there for sure. Perhaps a little obvious, but
obvious can be good. Like the notion of bumping short jobs to the front of the
queue — I knew that was a good idea ever since the one time I was buying some
gum at the store, and the guy in front of me had a credit card that wouldn’t work.
He was no short job, let me tell you.
Professor: That sounds oddly rude to that poor fellow. What else?
Student: Well, that you can build a smart scheduler that tries to be like SJF
and RR all at once — that MLFQ was pretty neat. Building up a real scheduler
seems difﬁcult.
Professor: Indeed it is. That’s why there is still controversy to this day over
which scheduler to use; see the Linux battles between CFS, BFS, and the O(1)
scheduler, for example. And no, I will not spell out the full name of BFS.
Student: And I won’t ask you to! These policy battles seem like they could rage
forever; is there really a right answer?
Professor: Probably not. After all, even our own metrics are at odds: if your
scheduler is good at turnaround time, it’s bad at response time, and vice versa.
As Lampson said, perhaps the goal isn’t to ﬁnd the best solution, but rather to
avoid disaster.
Student: That’s a little depressing.
Professor: Good engineering can be that way. And it can also be uplifting!
It’s just your perspective on it, really. I personally think being pragmatic is a
good thing, and pragmatists realize that not all problems have clean and easy
solutions. Anything else that caught your fancy?
Student: I really liked the notion of gaming the scheduler; it seems like that
might be something to look into when I’m next running a job on Amazon’s EC2
service. Maybe I can steal some cycles from some other unsuspecting (and more
importantly, OS-ignorant) customer!
Professor: It looks like I might have created a monster! Professor Frankenstein
is not what I’d like to be called, you know.
Student: But isn’t that the idea? To get us excited about something, so much so
that we look into it on our own? Lighting ﬁres and all that?
Professor: I guess so. But I didn’t think it would work!
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
