Preface
To Everyone
Welcome to this book! We hope you’ll enjoy reading it as much as we
enjoyed writing it. The book is called Operating Systems: Three Easy
Pieces (available at http://ostep.org), and the title is obviously an
homage to one of the greatest sets of lecture notes ever created, by one
Richard Feynman on the topic of Physics [F96]. While this book will un-
doubtedly fall short of the high standard set by that famous physicist,
perhaps it will be good enough for you in your quest to understand what
operating systems (and more generally, systems) are all about.
The three easy pieces refer to the three major thematic elements the
book is organized around: virtualization, concurrency, and persistence.
In discussing these concepts, we’ll end up discussing most of the impor-
tant things an operating system does; hopefully, you’ll also have some
fun along the way. Learning new things is fun, right? At least, it (usually)
should be.
Each major concept is divided into a set of chapters, most of which
present a particular problem and then show how to solve it. The chapters
are short, and try (as best as possible) to reference the source material
where the ideas really came from. One of our goals in writing this book
is to make the paths of history as clear as possible, as we think that helps
a student understand what is, what was, and what will be more clearly.
In this case, seeing how the sausage was made is nearly as important as
understanding what the sausage is good for1.
There are a couple devices we use throughout the book which are
probably worth introducing here. The ﬁrst is the crux of the problem.
Anytime we are trying to solve a problem, we ﬁrst try to state what the
most important issue is; such a crux of the problem is explicitly called
out in the text, and hopefully solved via the techniques, algorithms, and
ideas presented in the rest of the text.
In many places, we’ll explain how a system works by showing its be-
havior over time. These timelines are at the essence of understanding; if
you know what happens, for example, when a process page faults, you
are on your way to truly understanding how virtual memory operates. If
1Hint: eating! Or if you’re a vegetarian, running away from.
iii
