iv
you comprehend what takes place when a journaling ﬁle system writes a
block to disk, you have taken the ﬁrst steps towards mastery of storage
systems.
There are also numerous asides and tips throughout the text, adding
a little color to the mainline presentation. Asides tend to discuss some-
thing relevant (but perhaps not essential) to the main text; tips tend to be
general lessons that can be applied to systems you build. An index at the
end of the book lists all of these tips and asides (as well as cruces, the odd
plural of crux) for your convenience.
We use one of the oldest didactic methods, the dialogue, throughout
the book, as a way of presenting some of the material in a different light.
These are used to introduce the major thematic concepts (in a peachy way,
as we will see), as well as to review material every now and then. They
are also a chance to write in a more humorous style. Whether you ﬁnd
them useful, or humorous, well, that’s another matter entirely.
At the beginning of each major section, we’ll ﬁrst present an abstrac-
tion that an operating system provides, and then work in subsequent
chapters on the mechanisms, policies, and other support needed to pro-
vide the abstraction. Abstractions are fundamental to all aspects of Com-
puter Science, so it is perhaps no surprise that they are also essential in
operating systems.
Throughout the chapters, we try to use real code (not pseudocode)
where possible, so for virtually all examples, you should be able to type
them up yourself and run them. Running real code on real systems is the
best way to learn about operating systems, so we encourage you to do
so when you can. We are also making code available for your viewing
pleasure2.
In various parts of the text, we have sprinkled in a few homeworks
to ensure that you are understanding what is going on. Many of these
homeworks are little simulations of pieces of the operating system; you
should download the homeworks, and run them to quiz yourself. The
homework simulators have the following feature: by giving them a dif-
ferent random seed, you can generate a virtually inﬁnite set of problems;
the simulators can also be told to solve the problems for you. Thus, you
can test and re-test yourself until you have achieved a good level of un-
derstanding.
The most important addendum to this book is a set of projects in
which you learn about how real systems work by designing, implement-
ing, and testing your own code. All projects (as well as the code exam-
ples, mentioned above) are in the C programming language [KR88]; C is
a simple and powerful language that underlies most operating systems,
and thus worth adding to your tool-chest of languages. Two types of
projects are available (see the online appendix for ideas). The ﬁrst type
is systems programming projects; these projects are great for those who
2https://github.com/remzi-arpacidusseau/ostep-code
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
