xiii
Final Words
Yeats famously said “Education is not the ﬁlling of a pail but the light-
ing of a ﬁre.” He was right but wrong at the same time6. You do have
to “ﬁll the pail” a bit, and these notes are certainly here to help with that
part of your education; after all, when you go to interview at Google, and
they ask you a trick question about how to use semaphores, it might be
good to actually know what a semaphore is, right?
But Yeats’s larger point is obviously on the mark: the real point of
education is to get you interested in something, to learn something more
about the subject matter on your own and not just what you have to digest
to get a good grade in some class. As one of our fathers (Remzi’s dad,
Vedat Arpaci) used to say, “Learn beyond the classroom”.
We created these notes to spark your interest in operating systems, to
read more about the topic on your own, to talk to your professor about all
the exciting research that is going on in the ﬁeld, and even to get involved
with that research. It is a great ﬁeld(!), full of exciting and wonderful
ideas that have shaped computing history in profound and important
ways. And while we understand this ﬁre won’t light for all of you, we
hope it does for many, or even a few. Because once that ﬁre is lit, well,
that is when you truly become capable of doing something great. And
thus the real point of the educational process: to go forth, to study many
new and fascinating topics, to learn, to mature, and most importantly, to
ﬁnd something that lights a ﬁre for you.
Andrea and Remzi
Married couple
Professors of Computer Science at the University of Wisconsin
Chief Lighters of Fires, hopefully7
6If he actually said this; as with many famous quotes, the history of this gem is murky.
7If this sounds like we are admitting some past history as arsonists, you are probably
missing the point. Probably. If this sounds cheesy, well, that’s because it is, but you’ll just have
to forgive us for that.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
