vi
To Educators
If you are an instructor or professor who wishes to use this book,
please feel free to do so. As you may have noticed, they are free and
available on-line from the following web page:
http://www.ostep.org
You can also purchase a printed copy from http://lulu.com or
http://amazon.com. Look for it on the web page above.
The (current) proper citation for the book is as follows:
Operating Systems: Three Easy Pieces
Remzi H. Arpaci-Dusseau and Andrea C. Arpaci-Dusseau
Arpaci-Dusseau Books
August, 2018 (Version 1.00) or July, 2019 (Version 1.01)
or October, 2023 (Version 1.10)
http://www.ostep.org
The course divides fairly well across a 15-week semester, in which you
can cover most of the topics within at a reasonable level of depth. Cram-
ming the course into a 10-week quarter probably requires dropping some
detail from each of the pieces. There are also a few chapters on virtual
machine monitors, which we usually squeeze in sometime during the
semester, either right at end of the large section on virtualization, or near
the end as an aside.
One slightly unusual aspect of the book is that concurrency, a topic at
the front of many OS books, is pushed off herein until the student has
built an understanding of virtualization of the CPU and of memory. In
our experience in teaching this course for nearly 20 years, students have
a hard time understanding how the concurrency problem arises, or why
they are trying to solve it, if they don’t yet understand what an address
space is, what a process is, or why context switches can occur at arbitrary
points in time. Once they do understand these concepts, however, in-
troducing the notion of threads and the problems that arise due to them
becomes rather easy, or at least, easier.
As much as is possible, we use a chalkboard (or whiteboard) to deliver
a lecture. On these more conceptual days, we come to class with a few
major ideas and examples in mind and use the board to present them.
Handouts are useful to give the students concrete problems to solve based
on the material. On more practical days, we simply plug a laptop into
the projector and show real code; this style works particularly well for
concurrency lectures as well as for any discussion sections where you
show students code that is relevant for their projects. We don’t generally
use slides to present material, but have now made a set available for those
who prefer that style of presentation.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
