viii
To Students
If you are a student reading this book, thank you! It is an honor for us
to provide some material to help you in your pursuit of knowledge about
operating systems. We both think back fondly towards some textbooks of
our undergraduate days (e.g., Hennessy and Patterson [HP90], the classic
book on computer architecture) and hope this book will become one of
those positive memories for you.
You may have noticed this book is free and available online4. There
is one major reason for this: textbooks are generally too expensive. This
book, we hope, is the ﬁrst of a new wave of free materials to help those
in pursuit of their education, regardless of which part of the world they
come from or how much they are willing to spend for a book. Failing
that, it is one free book, which is better than none.
We also hope, where possible, to point you to the original sources of
much of the material in the book: the great papers and persons who have
shaped the ﬁeld of operating systems over the years. Ideas are not pulled
out of the air; they come from smart and hard-working people (including
numerous Turing-award winners5), and thus we should strive to cele-
brate those ideas and people where possible. In doing so, we hopefully
can better understand the revolutions that have taken place, instead of
writing texts as if those thoughts have always been present [K62]. Fur-
ther, perhaps such references will encourage you to dig deeper on your
own; reading the famous papers of our ﬁeld is certainly one of the best
ways to learn.
4A digression here: “free” in the way we use it here does not mean open source, and it
does not mean the book is not copyrighted with the usual protections – it is! What it means is
that you can download the chapters and use them to learn about operating systems. Why not
an open-source book, just like Linux is an open-source kernel? Well, we believe it is important
for a book to have a single voice throughout, and have worked hard to provide such a voice.
When you’re reading it, the book should kind of feel like a dialogue with the person explaining
something to you. Hence, our approach.
5The Turing Award is the highest award in Computer Science; it is like the Nobel Prize,
except that you have never heard of it.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
