xi
suggestions for improvement, Peter Peterson (UMD) for his many bits
of useful feedback and commentary, Mark Kampe (Pomona) for detailed
criticism (we only wish we could ﬁx all suggestions!), and Youjip Won
(Hanyang) for his translation work into Korean(!) and numerous insight-
ful suggestions, to Terence Kelly for his sidebar on memory mapping. All
have helped these authors immeasurably in the reﬁnement of the materi-
als herein.
A special thank you to Professor Peter Reiher (UCLA) for writing a
wonderful set of security chapters, all in the style of this book. We had
the fortune of meeting Peter many years ago, and little did we know that
we would collaborate in this fashion two decades later. Amazing work!
Also, many thanks to the hundreds of students who have taken 537
over the years. In particular, the Fall ’08 class who encouraged the ﬁrst
written form of these notes (they were sick of not having any kind of
textbook to read — pushy students!), and then praised them enough for
us to keep going (including one hilarious “ZOMG! You should totally
write a textbook!” comment in our course evaluations that year).
A great debt of thanks is also owed to the brave few who took the xv6
project lab course, much of which is now incorporated into the main 537
course. From Spring ’09: Justin Cherniak, Patrick Deline, Matt Czech,
Tony Gregerson, Michael Griepentrog, Tyler Harter, Ryan Kroiss, Eric
Radzikowski, Wesley Reardan, Rajiv Vaidyanathan, and Christopher Wa-
clawik. From Fall ’09: Nick Bearson, Aaron Brown, Alex Bird, David
Capel, Keith Gould, Tom Grim, Jeffrey Hugo, Brandon Johnson, John
Kjell, Boyan Li, James Loethen, Will McCardell, Ryan Szaroletta, Simon
Tso, and Ben Yule. From Spring ’10: Patrick Blesi, Aidan Dennis-Oehling,
Paras Doshi, Jake Friedman, Benjamin Frisch, Evan Hanson, Pikkili He-
manth, Michael Jeung, Alex Langenfeld, Scott Rick, Mike Treffert, Garret
Staus, Brennan Wall, Hans Werner, Soo-Young Yang, and Carlos Grifﬁn
(almost).
Although they do not directly help with the book, our students have
taught us much of what we know about systems. We talk with them reg-
ularly while they are at Wisconsin, but they do all the real work — and
by telling us about what they are doing, we learn new things every week.
This list includes the following collection of former Ph.D.s and post-docs:
Aishwarya Ganesan, Florentina Popovici, Haryadi S. Gunawi, Joe Mee-
hean, John Bent, Jun He, Kan Wu, Lanyue Lu, Lakshmi Bairavasundaram,
Leo Arulraj, Muthian Sivathanu, Nathan Burnett, Nitin Agrawal, Ram
Alagappan, Samer Al-Kiswany, Sriram Subramanian, Stephen Todd Jones,
Sudarsun Kannan, Suli Yang, Swaminathan Sundararaman, Thanh Do,
Thanumalayan S. Pillai, Timothy Denehy, Tyler Harter, Vijay Chidambaram,
Vijayan Prabhakaran, Yiying Zhang, Yupu Zhang, Yuvraj Patel, Zev Weiss.
Of course, many other students (undergraduates, masters) and collab-
orators have co-authored papers with us. We thank them as well; please
see our web pages or DBLP to see who they are.
Our graduate students have largely been funded by the National Sci-
ence Foundation (NSF), the Department of Energy Ofﬁce of Science (DOE),
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
