INTERLUDE: PROCESS API
13
Homework (Simulation)
This simulation homework focuses on fork.py, a simple process cre-
ation simulator that shows how processes are related in a single “famil-
ial” tree. Read the relevant README for details about how to run the
simulator.
Questions
1. Run ./fork.py -s 10 and see which actions are taken. Can you
predict what the process tree looks like at each step? Use the -c
ﬂag to check your answers. Try some different random seeds (-s)
or add more actions (-a) to get the hang of it.
2. One control the simulator gives you is the fork_percentage, con-
trolled by the -f ﬂag. The higher it is, the more likely the next ac-
tion is a fork; the lower it is, the more likely the action is an exit.
Run the simulator with a large number of actions (e.g., -a 100)
and vary the fork_percentage from 0.1 to 0.9. What do you
think the resulting ﬁnal process trees will look like as the percent-
age changes? Check your answer with -c.
3. Now, switch the output by using the -t ﬂag (e.g., run ./fork.py
-t). Given a set of process trees, can you tell which actions were
taken?
4. One interesting thing to note is what happens when a child exits;
what happens to its children in the process tree? To study this, let’s
create a speciﬁc example: ./fork.py -A a+b,b+c,c+d,c+e,c-.
This example has process ’a’ create ’b’, which in turn creates ’c’,
which then creates ’d’ and ’e’. However, then, ’c’ exits. What do
you think the process tree should like after the exit? What if you
use the -R ﬂag? Learn more about what happens to orphaned pro-
cesses on your own to add more context.
5. One last ﬂag to explore is the -F ﬂag, which skips intermediate
steps and only asks to ﬁll in the ﬁnal process tree. Run ./fork.py
-F and see if you can write down the ﬁnal tree by looking at the
series of actions generated. Use different random seeds to try this a
few times.
6. Finally, use both -t and -F together. This shows the ﬁnal process
tree, but then asks you to ﬁll in the actions that took place. By look-
ing at the tree, can you determine the exact actions that took place?
In which cases can you tell? In which can’t you tell? Try some dif-
ferent random seeds to delve into this question.
© 2008–25, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
