4
INTERLUDE: PROCESS API
it will choose to do, and hence which process will run ﬁrst. This non-
determinism, as it turns out, leads to some interesting problems, par-
ticularly in multi-threaded programs; hence, we’ll see a lot more non-
determinism when we study concurrency in the second part of the book.
5.2 The wait() System Call
So far, we haven’t done much: just created a child that prints out a
message and exits. Sometimes, as it turns out, it is quite useful for a
parent to wait for a child process to ﬁnish what it has been doing. This
task is accomplished with the wait() system call (or its more complete
sibling waitpid()); see Figure 5.2 for details.
In this example (p2.c), the parent process calls wait() to block (i.e.,
delay its execution) until the child ﬁnishes executing. When the child is
done, the parent becomes unblocked, and wait() returns in the parent.
Adding a wait() call to the code above makes the output determin-
istic. Can you see why? Go ahead, think about it.
(waiting for you to think .... and done)
Now that you have thought a bit, here is the output:
prompt> ./p2
hello (pid:29266)
child (pid:29267)
parent of 29267 (rc_wait:29267) (pid:29266)
prompt>
With this code, we now know that the child will always print ﬁrst.
Why do we know that? Well, it might simply run ﬁrst, as before, and
thus print before the parent. However, if the parent does happen to run
ﬁrst, it will immediately call wait(); this system call won’t return until
the child has run and exited2. Thus, even when the parent runs ﬁrst, it
politely waits for the child to ﬁnish running, then wait() returns, and
then the parent prints its message.
5.3 Finally, The exec() System Call
A ﬁnal and important piece of the process creation API is the exec()
system call3. This system call is useful when you want to run a program
that is different from the calling program. For example, calling fork()
2There are a few cases where wait() returns before the child exits; read the man page
for more details, as always. And beware of any absolute and unqualiﬁed statements this book
makes, such as “the child will always print ﬁrst” or “UNIX is the best thing in the world, even
better than ice cream.”
3On Linux, there are six variants of exec():
execl(), execlp(), execle(),
execv(), execvp(), and execvpe(). Read the man pages to learn more.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
