6
INTERLUDE: PROCESS API
TIP: GETTING IT RIGHT (LAMPSON’S LAW)
As Lampson states in his well-regarded “Hints for Computer Systems
Design” [L83], “Get it right. Neither abstraction nor simplicity is a sub-
stitute for getting it right.” Sometimes, you just have to do the right thing,
and when you do, it is way better than the alternatives. There are lots
of ways to design APIs for process creation; however, the combination
of fork() and exec() are simple and immensely powerful. Here, the
UNIX designers simply got it right. And because Lampson so often “got
it right”, we name the law in his honor.
executable and overwrites its current code segment (and current static
data) with it; the heap and stack and other parts of the memory space of
the program are re-initialized. Then the OS simply runs that program,
passing in any arguments as the argv of that process. Thus, it does not
create a new process; rather, it transforms the currently running program
(formerly p3) into a different running program (wc). After the exec()
in the child, it is almost as if p3.c never ran; a successful call to exec()
never returns.
5.4 Why? Motivating The API
Of course, one big question you might have: why would we build
such an odd interface to what should be the simple act of creating a new
process? Well, as it turns out, the separation of fork() and exec() is
essential in building a UNIX shell, because it lets the shell run code after
the call to fork() but before the call to exec(); this code can alter the
environment of the about-to-be-run program, and thus enables a variety
of interesting features to be readily built.
The shell is just a user program4. It shows you a prompt and then
waits for you to type something into it. You then type a command (i.e.,
the name of an executable program, plus any arguments) into it; in most
cases, the shell then ﬁgures out where in the ﬁle system the executable
resides, calls fork() to create a new child process to run the command,
calls some variant of exec() to run the command, and then waits for the
command to complete by calling wait(). When the child completes, the
shell returns from wait() and prints out a prompt again, ready for your
next command.
The separation of fork() and exec() allows the shell to do a whole
bunch of useful things rather easily. For example:
prompt> wc p3.c > newfile.txt
4And there are lots of shells; tcsh, bash, and zsh to name a few. You should pick one,
read its man pages, and learn more about it; all UNIX experts do.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
