INTERLUDE: PROCESS API
7
In the example above, the output of the program wc is redirected into
the output ﬁle newfile.txt (the greater-than sign is how said redirec-
tion is indicated). The way the shell accomplishes this task is quite sim-
ple: when the child is created, before calling exec(), the shell (speciﬁ-
cally, the code executed in the child process) closes standard output and
opens the ﬁle newfile.txt. By doing so, any output from the soon-
to-be-running program wc is sent to the ﬁle instead of the screen (open
ﬁle descriptors are kept open across the exec() call, thus enabling this
behavior [SR05]).
Figure 5.4 (page 8) shows a program that does exactly this. The reason
this redirection works is due to an assumption about how the operating
system manages ﬁle descriptors. Speciﬁcally, UNIX systems start looking
for free ﬁle descriptors at zero. In this case, STDOUT FILENO will be the
ﬁrst available one and thus get assigned when open() is called. Subse-
quent writes by the child process to the standard output ﬁle descriptor,
for example by routines such as printf(), will then be routed transpar-
ently to the newly-opened ﬁle instead of the screen.
Here is the output of running the p4.c program:
prompt> ./p4
prompt> cat p4.output
32
109
846 p4.c
prompt>
You’ll notice (at least) two interesting tidbits about this output. First,
when p4 is run, it looks as if nothing has happened; the shell just prints
the command prompt and is immediately ready for your next command.
However, that is not the case; the program p4 did indeed call fork() to
create a new child, and then run the wc program via a call to execvp().
You don’t see any output printed to the screen because it has been redi-
rected to the ﬁle p4.output. Second, you can see that when we cat the
output ﬁle, all the expected output from running wc is found. Cool, right?
UNIX pipes are implemented in a similar way, but with the pipe()
system call. In this case, the output of one process is connected to an in-
kernel pipe (i.e., queue), and the input of another process is connected
to that same pipe; thus, the output of one process seamlessly is used as
input to the next, and long and useful chains of commands can be strung
together. As a simple example, consider looking for a word in a ﬁle, and
then counting how many times said word occurs; with pipes and the util-
ities grep and wc, it is easy; just type grep -o foo file | wc -l
into the command prompt and marvel at the result.
Finally, while we just have sketched out the process API at a high level,
there is a lot more detail about these calls out there to be learned and
digested; we’ll learn more, for example, about ﬁle descriptors when we
talk about ﬁle systems in the third part of the book. For now, sufﬁce it
to say that the fork()/exec() combination is a powerful way to create
and manipulate processes.
© 2008–25, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
