INTERLUDE: PROCESS API
9
ASIDE: RTFM — READ THE MAN PAGES
Many times in this book, when referring to a particular system call or
library call, we’ll tell you to read the manual pages, or man pages for
short. Man pages are the original form of documentation that exist on
UNIX systems; realize that they were created before the thing called the
web existed.
Spending some time reading man pages is a key step in the growth of
a systems programmer; there are tons of useful tidbits hidden in those
pages.
Some particularly useful pages to read are the man pages for
whichever shell you are using (e.g., tcsh, or bash), and certainly for any
system calls your program makes (in order to see what return values and
error conditions exist).
Finally, reading the man pages can save you some embarrassment. When
you ask colleagues about some intricacy of fork(), they may simply
reply: “RTFM.” This is your colleagues’ way of gently urging you to Read
The Man pages. The F in RTFM just adds a little color to the phrase...
ual processes as well as entire process groups. To use this form of com-
munication, a process should use the signal() system call to “catch”
various signals; doing so ensures that when a particular signal is deliv-
ered to a process, it will suspend its normal execution and run a particu-
lar piece of code in response to the signal. Read elsewhere [SR05] to learn
more about signals and their many intricacies.
This naturally raises the question: who can send a signal to a process,
and who cannot? Generally, the systems we use can have multiple people
using them at the same time; if one of these people can arbitrarily send
signals such as SIGINT (to interrupt a process, likely terminating it), the
usability and security of the system will be compromised. As a result,
modern systems include a strong conception of the notion of a user. The
user, after entering a password to establish credentials, logs in to gain
access to system resources. The user may then launch one or many pro-
cesses, and exercise full control over them (pause them, kill them, etc.).
Users generally can only control their own processes; it is the job of the
operating system to parcel out resources (such as CPU, memory, and disk)
to each user (and their processes) to meet overall system goals.
5.6 Useful Tools
There are many command-line tools that are useful as well. For exam-
ple, using the ps command allows you to see which processes are run-
ning; read the man pages for some useful ﬂags to pass to ps. The tool top
is also quite helpful, as it displays the processes of the system and how
much CPU and other resources they are eating up. Humorously, many
times when you run it, top claims it is the top resource hog; perhaps it is
© 2008–25, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
