10
INTERLUDE: PROCESS API
ASIDE: THE SUPERUSER (ROOT)
A system generally needs a user who can administer the system, and is
not limited in the way most users are. Such a user should be able to kill
an arbitrary process (e.g., if it is abusing the system in some way), even
though that process was not started by this user. Such a user should also
be able to run powerful commands such as shutdown (which, unsurpris-
ingly, shuts down the system). In UNIX-based systems, these special abil-
ities are given to the superuser (sometimes called root). While most users
can’t kill other users processes, the superuser can. Being root is much like
being Spider-Man: with great power comes great responsibility [QI15].
Thus, to increase security (and avoid costly mistakes), it’s usually better
to be a regular user; if you do need to be root, tread carefully, as all of the
destructive powers of the computing world are now at your ﬁngertips.
a bit of an egomaniac. The command kill can be used to send arbitrary
signals to processes, as can the slightly more user friendly killall. Be
sure to use these carefully; if you accidentally kill your window manager,
the computer you are sitting in front of may become quite difﬁcult to use.
Finally, there are many different kinds of CPU meters you can use to
get a quick glance understanding of the load on your system; for example,
we always keep MenuMeters (from Raging Menace software) running on
our Macintosh toolbars, so we can see how much CPU is being utilized
at any moment in time. In general, the more information about what is
going on, the better.
5.7 Summary
We have introduced some of the APIs dealing with UNIX process cre-
ation: fork(), exec(), and wait(). However, we have just skimmed
the surface. For more detail, read Stevens and Rago [SR05], of course,
particularly the chapters on Process Control, Process Relationships, and
Signals; there is much to extract from the wisdom therein.
While our passion for the UNIX process API remains strong, we should
also note that such positivity is not uniform. For example, a recent pa-
per by systems researchers from Microsoft, Boston University, and ETH
in Switzerland details some problems with fork(), and advocates for
other, simpler process creation APIs such as spawn() [B+19]. Read it,
and the related work it refers to, to understand this different vantage
point. While it’s generally good to trust this book, remember too that
the authors have opinions; those opinions may not (always) be as widely
shared as you might think.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
