12
SCHEDULING: PROPORTIONAL SHARE
TIP: USE EFFICIENT DATA STRUCTURES WHEN APPROPRIATE
In many cases, a list will do. In many cases, it will not. Knowing which
data structure to use when is a hallmark of good engineering. In the case
discussed herein, simple lists found in earlier schedulers simply do not
work well on modern systems, particular in the heavily loaded servers
found in datacenters.
Such systems contain thousands of active pro-
cesses; searching through a long list to ﬁnd the next job to run on each
core every few milliseconds would waste precious CPU cycles. A better
structure was needed, and CFS provided one by adding an excellent im-
plementation of a red-black tree. More generally, when picking a data
structure for a system you are building, carefully consider its access pat-
terns and its frequency of usage; by understanding these, you will be able
to implement the right structure for the task at hand.
each process as an independent entity), and many other interesting fea-
tures. Read recent research, starting with Bouron [B+18], to learn more.
9.8 Summary
We have introduced the concept of proportional-share scheduling and
brieﬂy discussed three approaches: lottery scheduling, stride scheduling,
and the Completely Fair Scheduler (CFS) of Linux. Lottery uses random-
ness in a clever way to achieve proportional share; stride does so deter-
ministically. CFS, the only “real” scheduler discussed in this chapter, is a
bit like weighted round-robin with dynamic time slices, but built to scale
and perform well under load; to our knowledge, it is the most widely
used fair-share scheduler in existence today.
No scheduler is a panacea, and fair-share schedulers have their fair
share of problems. One issue is that such approaches do not particularly
mesh well with I/O [AC97]; as mentioned above, jobs that perform I/O
occasionally may not get their fair share of CPU. Another issue is that
they leave open the hard problem of ticket or priority assignment, i.e.,
how do you know how many tickets your browser should be allocated, or
to what nice value to set your text editor? Other general-purpose sched-
ulers (such as the MLFQ we discussed previously, and other similar Linux
schedulers) handle these issues automatically and thus may be more eas-
ily deployed.
The good news is that there are many domains in which these prob-
lems are not the dominant concern, and proportional-share schedulers
are used to great effect. For example, in a virtualized data center (or
cloud), where you might like to assign one-quarter of your CPU cycles
to the Windows VM and the rest to your base Linux installation, propor-
tional sharing can be simple and effective. The idea can also be extended
to other resources; see Waldspurger [W02] for further details on how to
proportionally share memory in VMWare’s ESX Server.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
