SCHEDULING: PROPORTIONAL SHARE
3
TIP: USE TICKETS TO REPRESENT SHARES
One of the most powerful (and basic) mechanisms in the design of lottery
(and stride) scheduling is that of the ticket. The ticket is used to represent
a process’s share of the CPU in these examples, but can be applied much
more broadly. For example, in more recent work on virtual memory man-
agement for hypervisors, Waldspurger shows how tickets can be used to
represent a guest operating system’s share of memory [W02]. Thus, if you
are ever in need of a mechanism to represent a proportion of ownership,
this concept just might be ... (wait for it) ... the ticket.
9.2 Ticket Mechanisms
Lottery scheduling also provides a number of mechanisms to manip-
ulate tickets in different and sometimes useful ways. One way is with
the concept of ticket currency. Currency allows a user with a set of tick-
ets to allocate tickets among their own jobs in whatever currency they
would like; the system then automatically converts said currency into the
correct global value.
For example, assume users A and B have each been given 100 tickets.
User A is running two jobs, A1 and A2, and gives them each 500 tickets
(out of 1000 total) in A’s currency. User B is running only 1 job and gives
it 10 tickets (out of 10 total). The system converts A1’s and A2’s allocation
from 500 each in A’s currency to 50 each in the global currency; similarly,
B1’s 10 tickets is converted to 100 tickets. The lottery is then held over the
global ticket currency (200 total) to determine which job runs.
User A -> 500 (A’s currency) to A1 ->
50 (global currency)
-> 500 (A’s currency) to A2 ->
50 (global currency)
User B ->
10 (B’s currency) to B1 -> 100 (global currency)
Another useful mechanism is ticket transfer. With transfers, a process
can temporarily hand off its tickets to another process. This ability is
especially useful in a client/server setting, where a client process sends
a message to a server asking it to do some work on the client’s behalf.
To speed up the work, the client can pass the tickets to the server and
thus try to maximize the performance of the server while the server is
handling the client’s request. When ﬁnished, the server then transfers the
tickets back to the client and all is as before.
Finally, ticket inﬂation can sometimes be a useful technique. With
inﬂation, a process can temporarily raise or lower the number of tickets
it owns. Of course, in a competitive scenario with processes that do not
trust one another, this makes little sense; one greedy process could give
itself a vast number of tickets and take over the machine. Rather, inﬂation
can be applied in an environment where a group of processes trust one
another; in such a case, if any one process knows it needs more CPU time,
it can boost its ticket value as a way to reﬂect that need to the system, all
without communicating with any other processes.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
