6
SCHEDULING: PROPORTIONAL SHARE
9.5 How To Assign Tickets?
One problem we have not addressed with lottery scheduling is: how
to assign tickets to jobs? This problem is a tough one, because of course
how the system behaves is strongly dependent on how tickets are allo-
cated. One approach is to assume that the users know best; in such a
case, each user is handed some number of tickets, and a user can allocate
tickets to any jobs they run as desired. However, this solution is a non-
solution: it really doesn’t tell you what to do. Thus, given a set of jobs,
the “ticket-assignment problem” remains open.
9.6 Stride Scheduling
You might also be wondering: why use randomness at all? As we saw
above, while randomness gets us a simple (and approximately correct)
scheduler, it occasionally will not deliver the exact right proportions, es-
pecially over short time scales. For this reason, Waldspurger invented
stride scheduling, a deterministic fair-share scheduler [W95].
Stride scheduling is also straightforward. Each job in the system has
a stride, which is inverse in proportion to the number of tickets it has. In
our example above, with jobs A, B, and C, with 100, 50, and 250 tickets,
respectively, we can compute the stride of each by dividing some large
number by the number of tickets each process has been assigned. For
example, if we divide 10,000 by each of those ticket values, we obtain
the following stride values for A, B, and C: 100, 200, and 40. We call
this value the stride of each process; every time a process runs, we will
increment a counter for it (called its pass value) by its stride to track its
global progress.
The scheduler then uses the stride and pass to determine which pro-
cess should run next. The basic idea is simple: at any given time, pick
the process to run that has the lowest pass value so far; when you run
a process, increment its pass counter by its stride. A pseudocode imple-
mentation is provided by Waldspurger [W95]:
curr = remove_min(queue);
// pick client with min pass
schedule(curr);
// run for quantum
curr->pass += curr->stride; // update pass using stride
insert(queue, curr);
// return curr to queue
In our example, we start with three processes (A, B, and C), with stride
values of 100, 200, and 40, and all with pass values initially at 0. Thus, at
ﬁrst, any of the processes might run, as their pass values are equally low.
Assume we pick A (arbitrarily; any of the processes with equal low pass
values can be chosen). A runs; when ﬁnished with the time slice, we
update its pass value to 100. Then we run B, whose pass value is then
set to 200. Finally, we run C, whose pass value is incremented to 40. At
this point, the algorithm will pick the lowest pass value, which is C’s, and
run it, updating its pass to 80 (C’s stride is 40, as you recall). Then C will
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
