8
SCHEDULING: PROPORTIONAL SHARE
0
50
100
150
200
250
Time
A B C D A B C D
A
B
A
B
A
B
Figure 9.4: CFS Simple Example
Basic Operation
Whereas most schedulers are based around the concept of a ﬁxed time
slice, CFS operates a bit differently. Its goal is simple: to fairly divide a
CPU evenly among all competing processes. It does so through a simple
counting-based technique known as virtual runtime (vruntime).
As each process runs, it accumulates vruntime. In the most basic
case, each process’s vruntime increases at the same rate, in proportion
with physical (real) time. When a scheduling decision occurs, CFS will
pick the process with the lowest vruntime to run next.
This raises a question: how does the scheduler know when to stop
the currently running process, and run the next one? The tension here is
clear: if CFS switches too often, fairness is increased, as CFS will ensure
that each process receives its share of CPU even over miniscule time win-
dows, but at the cost of performance (too much context switching); if CFS
switches less often, performance is increased (reduced context switching),
but at the cost of near-term fairness.
CFS manages this tension through various control parameters. The
ﬁrst is sched latency. CFS uses this value to determine how long one
process should run before considering a switch (effectively determining
its time slice but in a dynamic fashion). A typical sched latency value
is 48 (milliseconds); CFS divides this value by the number (n) of processes
running on the CPU to determine the time slice for a process, and thus
ensures that over this period of time, CFS will be completely fair.
For example, if there are n = 4 processes running, CFS divides the
value of sched latency by n to arrive at a per-process time slice of 12
ms. CFS then schedules the ﬁrst job and runs it until it has used 12 ms
of (virtual) runtime, and then checks to see if there is a job with lower
vruntime to run instead. In this case, there is, and CFS would switch
to one of the three other jobs, and so forth. Figure 9.4 shows an example
where the four jobs (A, B, C, D) each run for two time slices in this fashion;
two of them (C, D) then complete, leaving just two remaining, which then
each run for 24 ms in round-robin fashion.
But what if there are “too many” processes running? Wouldn’t that
lead to too small of a time slice, and thus too many context switches?
Good question! And the answer is yes.
To address this issue, CFS adds another parameter, min granularity,
which is usually set to a value like 6 ms. CFS will never set the time slice
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
