10
SCHEDULING: PROPORTIONAL SHARE
ority by assigning it a nice value of -5; B, because we hates it3, just has the
default priority (nice value equal to 0). This means weightA (from the ta-
ble) is 3121, whereas weightB is 1024. If you then compute the time slice
of each job, you’ll ﬁnd that A’s time slice is about 3
4 of sched latency
(hence, 36 ms), and B’s about 1
4 (hence, 12 ms).
In addition to generalizing the time slice calculation, the way CFS cal-
culates vruntime must also be adapted. Here is the new formula, which
takes the actual run time that process i has accrued (runtimei) and scales
it inversely by the weight of the process, by dividing the default weight
of 1024 (weight0) by its weight, weighti. In our running example, A’s
vruntime will accumulate at one-third the rate of B’s.
vruntimei = vruntimei + weight0
weighti
· runtimei
(9.2)
One smart aspect of the construction of the table of weights above is
that the table preserves CPU proportionality ratios when the difference in
nice values is constant. For example, if process A instead had a nice value
of 5 (not -5), and process B had a nice value of 10 (not 0), CFS would
schedule them in exactly the same manner as before. Run through the
math yourself to see why.
Using Red-Black Trees
One major focus of CFS is efﬁciency, as stated above. For a scheduler,
there are many facets of efﬁciency, but one of them is as simple as this:
when the scheduler has to ﬁnd the next job to run, it should do so as
quickly as possible. Simple data structures like lists don’t scale: modern
systems sometimes are comprised of 1000s of processes, and thus search-
ing through a long-list every so many milliseconds is wasteful.
CFS addresses this by keeping processes in a red-black tree [B72]. A
red-black tree is one of many types of balanced trees; in contrast to a
simple binary tree (which can degenerate to list-like performance un-
der worst-case insertion patterns), balanced trees do a little extra work
to maintain low depths, and thus ensure that operations are logarithmic
(and not linear) in time.
CFS does not keep all processes in this structure; rather, only running
(or runnable) processes are kept therein. If a process goes to sleep (say,
waiting on an I/O to complete, or for a network packet to arrive), it is
removed from the tree and kept track of elsewhere.
Let’s look at an example to make this more clear. Assume there are ten
jobs, and that they have the following values of vruntime: 1, 5, 9, 10, 14,
18, 17, 21, 22, and 24. If we kept these jobs in an ordered list, ﬁnding the
next job to run would be simple: just remove the ﬁrst element. However,
3Yes, yes, we are using bad grammar here on purpose, please don’t send in a bug ﬁx.
Why? Well, just a most mild of references to the Lord of the Rings, and our favorite anti-hero
Gollum, nothing to get too excited about.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
