10
Multiprocessor Scheduling (Advanced)
This chapter will introduce the basics of multiprocessor scheduling.
As this topic is relatively advanced, it may be best to cover it after you
have studied the topic of concurrency in some detail (i.e., the second ma-
jor “easy piece” of the book).
After years of existence only in the high-end of the computing spec-
trum, multiprocessor systems are increasingly commonplace, and have
found their way into desktop machines, laptops, and even mobile de-
vices. The rise of the multicore processor, in which multiple CPU cores
are packed onto a single chip, is the source of this proliferation; these
chips have become popular as computer architects have had a difﬁcult
time making a single CPU much faster without using (way) too much
power. And thus we all now have a few CPUs available to us, which is a
good thing, right?
Of course, there are many difﬁculties that arise with the arrival of more
than a single CPU. A primary one is that a typical application (i.e., some C
program you wrote) only uses a single CPU; adding more CPUs does not
make that single application run faster. To remedy this problem, you’ll
have to rewrite your application to run in parallel, perhaps using threads
(as discussed in great detail in the second piece of this book). Multi-
threaded applications can spread work across multiple CPUs and thus
run faster when given more CPU resources.
ASIDE: ADVANCED CHAPTERS
Advanced chapters require material from a broad swath of the book to
truly understand, while logically ﬁtting into a section that is earlier than
said set of prerequisite materials. For example, this chapter on multipro-
cessor scheduling makes much more sense if you’ve ﬁrst read the middle
piece on concurrency; however, it logically ﬁts into the part of the book
on virtualization (generally) and CPU scheduling (speciﬁcally). Thus, it
is recommended such chapters be covered out of order; in this case, after
the second piece of the book.
1
