12
MULTIPROCESSOR SCHEDULING (ADVANCED)
Homework (Simulation)
In this homework, we’ll use multi.py to simulate a multi-processor
CPU scheduler, and learn about some of its details. Read the related
README for more information about the simulator and its options.
Questions
1. To start things off, let’s learn how to use the simulator to study how
to build an effective multi-processor scheduler. The ﬁrst simulation
will run just one job, which has a run-time of 30, and a working-set
size of 200. Run this job (called job ’a’ here) on one simulated CPU
as follows: ./multi.py -n 1 -L a:30:200. How long will it
take to complete? Turn on the -c ﬂag to see a ﬁnal answer, and the
-t ﬂag to see a tick-by-tick trace of the job and how it is scheduled.
2. Now increase the cache size so as to make the job’s working set
(size=200) ﬁt into the cache (which, by default, is size=100); for
example, run ./multi.py -n 1 -L a:30:200 -M 300. Can
you predict how fast the job will run once it ﬁts in cache? (hint:
remember the key parameter of the warm rate, which is set by the
-r ﬂag) Check your answer by running with the solve ﬂag (-c) en-
abled.
3. One cool thing about multi.py is that you can see more detail
about what is going on with different tracing ﬂags. Run the same
simulation as above, but this time with time left tracing enabled
(-T). This ﬂag shows both the job that was scheduled on a CPU
at each time step, as well as how much run-time that job has left
after each tick has run. What do you notice about how that second
column decreases?
4. Now add one more bit of tracing, to show the status of each CPU
cache for each job, with the -C ﬂag. For each job, each cache will
either show a blank space (if the cache is cold for that job) or a ’w’
(if the cache is warm for that job). At what point does the cache
become warm for job ’a’ in this simple example? What happens
as you change the warmup time parameter (-w) to lower or higher
values than the default?
5. At this point, you should have a good idea of how the simula-
tor works for a single job running on a single CPU. But hey, isn’t
this a multi-processor CPU scheduling chapter? Oh yeah! So let’s
start working with multiple jobs. Speciﬁcally, let’s run the follow-
ing three jobs on a two-CPU system (i.e., type ./multi.py -n
2 -L a:100:100,b:100:50,c:100:50) Can you predict how
long this will take, given a round-robin centralized scheduler? Use
-c to see if you were right, and then dive down into details with -t
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
