MULTIPROCESSOR SCHEDULING (ADVANCED)
3
Memory
CPU
CPU
Cache
Cache
Bus
Figure 10.2: Two CPUs With Caches Sharing Memory
As an example, consider a program that issues an explicit load instruc-
tion to fetch a value from memory, and a simple system with only a single
CPU; the CPU has a small cache (say 64 KB) and a large main memory.
The ﬁrst time a program issues this load, the data resides in main mem-
ory, and thus takes a long time to fetch (perhaps in the tens of nanosec-
onds, or even hundreds). The processor, anticipating that the data may be
reused, puts a copy of the loaded data into the CPU cache. If the program
later fetches this same data item again, the CPU ﬁrst checks for it in the
cache; if it ﬁnds it there, the data is fetched much more quickly (say, just
a few nanoseconds), and thus the program runs faster.
Caches are thus based on the notion of locality, of which there are
two kinds: temporal locality and spatial locality. The idea behind tem-
poral locality is that when a piece of data is accessed, it is likely to be
accessed again in the near future; imagine variables or even instructions
themselves being accessed over and over again in a loop. The idea be-
hind spatial locality is that if a program accesses a data item at address
x, it is likely to access data items near x as well; here, think of a program
streaming through an array, or instructions being executed one after the
other. Because locality of these types exist in many programs, hardware
systems can make good guesses about which data to put in a cache and
thus work well.
Now for the tricky part: what happens when you have multiple pro-
cessors in a single system, with a single shared main memory, as we see
in Figure 10.2?
As it turns out, caching with multiple CPUs is much more compli-
cated. Imagine, for example, that a program running on CPU 1 reads
a data item (with value D) at address A; because the data is not in the
cache on CPU 1, the system fetches it from main memory, and gets the
© 2008–25, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
