4
MULTIPROCESSOR SCHEDULING (ADVANCED)
value D. The program then modiﬁes the value at address A, just updat-
ing its cache with the new value D′; writing the data through all the way
to main memory is slow, so the system will (usually) do that later. Then
assume the OS decides to stop running the program and move it to CPU
2. The program then re-reads the value at address A; there is no such
data in CPU 2’s cache, and thus the system fetches the value from main
memory, and gets the old value D instead of the correct value D′. Oops!
This general problem is called the problem of cache coherence, and
there is a vast research literature that describes many different subtleties
involved with solving the problem [SHW11]. Here, we will skip all of the
nuance and make some major points; take a computer architecture class
(or three) to learn more.
The basic solution is provided by the hardware: by monitoring mem-
ory accesses, hardware can ensure that basically the “right thing” hap-
pens and that the view of a single shared memory is preserved. One way
to do this on a bus-based system (as described above) is to use an old
technique known as bus snooping [G83]; each cache pays attention to
memory updates by observing the bus that connects them to main mem-
ory. When a CPU then sees an update for a data item it holds in its cache,
it will notice the change and either invalidate its copy (i.e., remove it
from its own cache) or update it (i.e., put the new value into its cache
too). Write-back caches, as hinted at above, make this more complicated
(because the write to main memory isn’t visible until later), but you can
imagine how the basic scheme might work.
10.2 Don’t Forget Synchronization
Given that the caches do all of this work to provide coherence, do pro-
grams (or the OS itself) have to worry about anything when they access
shared data? The answer, unfortunately, is yes, and is documented in
great detail in the second piece of this book on the topic of concurrency.
While we won’t get into the details here, we’ll sketch/review some of the
basic ideas here (assuming you’re familiar with concurrency).
When accessing (and in particular, updating) shared data items or
structures across CPUs, mutual exclusion primitives (such as locks) should
likely be used to guarantee correctness (other approaches, such as build-
ing lock-free data structures, are complex and only used on occasion;
see the chapter on deadlock in the piece on concurrency for details). For
example, assume we have a shared queue being accessed on multiple
CPUs concurrently. Without locks, adding or removing elements from
the queue concurrently will not work as expected, even with the under-
lying coherence protocols; one needs locks to atomically update the data
structure to its new state.
To make this more concrete, imagine this code sequence, which is used
to remove an element from a shared linked list, as we see in Figure 10.3.
Imagine if threads on two CPUs enter this routine at the same time. If
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
