10
MULTIPROCESSOR SCHEDULING (ADVANCED)
One basic approach is to use a technique known as work stealing
[FLR98]. With a work-stealing approach, a (source) queue that is low
on jobs will occasionally peek at another (target) queue, to see how full
it is. If the target queue is (notably) more full than the source queue, the
source will “steal” one or more jobs from the target to help balance load.
Of course, there is a natural tension in such an approach. If you look
around at other queues too often, you will suffer from high overhead
and have trouble scaling, which was the entire purpose of implementing
the multiple queue scheduling in the ﬁrst place! If, on the other hand,
you don’t look at other queues very often, you are in danger of suffering
from severe load imbalances. Finding the right threshold remains, as is
common in system policy design, a black art.
10.6 Linux Multiprocessor Schedulers
Interestingly, in the Linux community, no common solution has emerged
to building a multiprocessor scheduler. Over time, three different sched-
ulers arose: the O(1) scheduler, the Completely Fair Scheduler (CFS),
and the BF Scheduler (BFS)2. See Meehean’s dissertation for an excellent
overview of the strengths and weaknesses of said schedulers [M11]; here
we just summarize a few of the basics.
Both O(1) and CFS use multiple queues, whereas BFS uses a single
queue, showing that both approaches can be successful. Of course, there
are many other details which separate these schedulers. For example, the
O(1) scheduler is a priority-based scheduler (similar to the MLFQ dis-
cussed before), changing a process’s priority over time and then schedul-
ing those with highest priority in order to meet various scheduling objec-
tives; interactivity is a particular focus. CFS, in contrast, is a deterministic
proportional-share approach (more like Stride scheduling, as discussed
earlier). BFS, the only single-queue approach among the three, is also
proportional-share, but based on a more complicated scheme known as
Earliest Eligible Virtual Deadline First (EEVDF) [SA96]. Read more about
these modern algorithms on your own; you should be able to understand
how they work now!
10.7 Summary
We have seen various approaches to multiprocessor scheduling. The
single-queue approach (SQMS) is rather straightforward to build and bal-
ances load well but inherently has difﬁculty with scaling to many pro-
cessors and cache afﬁnity. The multiple-queue approach (MQMS) scales
better and handles cache afﬁnity well, but has trouble with load imbal-
ance and is more complicated. Whichever approach you take, there is no
simple answer: building a general purpose scheduler remains a daunting
task, as small code changes can lead to large behavioral differences. Only
undertake such an exercise if you know exactly what you are doing, or,
at least, are getting paid a large amount of money to do so.
2Look up what BF stands for on your own; be forewarned, it is not for the faint of heart.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
