2
ACCESS CONTROL
THE CRUX OF THE PROBLEM:
HOW TO DETERMINE IF AN ACCESS REQUEST SHOULD BE GRANTED?
How can the operating system decide if a particular request made by
a particular process belonging to a particular user at some given moment
should or should not be granted? What information will be used to make
this decision? How can we set this information to encode the security
policies we want to enforce for our system?
55.2 Important Aspects Of The Access Control Problem
As usual, the system will run some kind of algorithm to make this
decision. It will take certain inputs and produce a binary output, a yes-or-
no decision on granting access. At the high level, access control is usually
spoken of in terms of subjects, objects, and access. A subject is the entity
that wants to perform the access, perhaps a user or a process. An object
is the thing the subject wants to access, perhaps a ﬁle or a device. Access
is some particular mode of dealing with the object, such as reading it or
writing it. So an access control decision is about whether a particular
subject is allowed to perform a particular mode of access on a particular
object. We sometimes refer to the process of determining if a particular
subject is allowed to perform a particular form of access on a particular1
object as authorization.
One relevant issue is when will access control decisions be made? The
system must run whatever algorithm it uses every time it makes such a
decision. The code that implements this algorithm is called a reference
monitor, and there is an obvious incentive to make sure it is implemented
both correctly and efﬁciently. If it’s not correct, you make the wrong ac-
cess decisions – obviously bad. Its efﬁciency is important because it will
inject some overhead whenever it is used. Perhaps we wish to minimize
these overheads by not checking access control on every possible oppor-
tunity. On the other hand, remember that principle of complete medi-
ation we introduced a couple of chapters back? That principle said we
should check security conditions every time someone asked for some-
thing.
Clearly, we’ll need to balance costs against security beneﬁts. But if
we can ﬁnd some beneﬁcial special cases where we can achieve low cost
without compromising security, we can possibly manage to avoid trading
off one for the other, at least in those cases.
One way to do so is to give subjects objects that belong only to them.
If the object is inherently theirs, by its very nature and unchangeably so,
the system can let the subject (a process, in the operating system case) ac-
1Wow. You know how hard it is to get so many instances of the word “particular” to line
up like this? It’s a column of particulars! But, perhaps, not particularly interesting.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
