ACCESS CONTROL
11
herits the identity of its parent process, also inheriting all of the privileges
of that principal. It’s hard to give the process just a subset of the parent’s
privileges. Either you need to create a new principal with those limited
privileges, change a bunch of access control lists, and set the new pro-
cess’s identity to that new principal, or you need some extension to your
access control model that doesn’t behave quite the way access control lists
ordinarily do. With capabilities, it’s easy. If the parent has capabilities for
X, Y, and Z, but only wants the child process to have the X and Y capabil-
ities, when the child is created, the parent transfers X and Y, not Z.
In practice, user-visible access control mechanisms tend to use access
control lists, not capabilities, for a number of reasons. However, under
the covers operating systems make extensive use of capabilities. For ex-
ample, in a typical Linux system, that open() call we were discussing
uses ACLs for access control. However, assuming the Linux open() was
successful, as long as the process keeps the ﬁle open, the ACL is not ex-
amined on subsequent reads and writes. Instead, Linux creates a data
structure that amounts to a capability indicating that the process has read
and write privileges for that ﬁle. This structure is attached to the process’s
PCB. On each read or write operation, the OS can simply consult this data
structure to determine if reading and writing are allowed, without hav-
ing to ﬁnd the ﬁle’s access control list. If the ﬁle is closed, this capability-
like structure is deleted from the PCB and the process can no longer access
the ﬁle without performing another open() which goes back to the ACL.
Similar techniques can be used to control access to hardware devices and
IPC channels, especially since UNIX-like systems treat these resources as
if they were ﬁles. This combined use of ACLs and capabilities allows the
system to avoid some of the problems associated with each mechanism.
The cost of checking an access control list on every operation is saved be-
cause this form of capability is easy to check, being merely the presence
or absence of a pointer in an operating system data structure. The cost of
managing capabilities for all accessible objects is avoided because the ca-
pability is only set up after a successful ACL check. If the object is never
accessed by a process, the ACL is never checked and no capability is re-
quired. Since any given process typically opens only a tiny fraction of all
the ﬁles it is permitted to open, the scaling issue doesn’t usually arise.
55.5 Mandatory And Discretionary Access Control
Who gets to decide what the access control on a computer resource
should be? For most people, the answer seems obvious: whoever owns
the resource. In the case of a user’s ﬁle, the user should determine access
control settings. In the case of a system resource, the system administra-
tor, or perhaps the owner of the computer, should determine them. How-
ever, for some systems and some security policies, that’s not the right an-
swer. In particular, the parties who care most about information security
sometimes want tighter controls than that.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU (OSTEP)
© 2019–23, REIHER (SECURITY)
THREE
EASY
PIECES
