12
ACCESS CONTROL
The military is the most obvious example. We’ve all heard of Top Se-
cret information, and probably all understand that even if you are al-
lowed to see Top Secret information, you’re not supposed to let other
people see it, too. And that’s true even if the information in question is in
a ﬁle that you created yourself, such as a report that contains statistics or
quotations from some other Top Secret document. In these cases, the sim-
ple answer of the creator controlling access permissions isn’t right. Who-
ever is in overall charge of information security in the organization needs
to make those decisions, which implies that principal has the power to
set the access controls for information created by and belonging to other
users, and that those users can’t override his decisions. The more com-
mon case is called discretionary access control. Whether almost anyone
or almost no one is given access to a resource is at the discretion of the
owning user. The more restrictive case is called mandatory access con-
trol. At least some elements of the access control decisions in such sys-
tems are mandated by an authority, who can override the desires of the
owner of the information. The choice of discretionary or mandatory ac-
cess control is orthogonal to whether you use ACLs or capabilities, and
is often independent of other aspects of the access control mechanism,
such as how access information is stored and handled. A mandatory ac-
cess control system can also include discretionary elements, which allow
further restriction (but not loosening) of mandatory controls.
Many people will never work with a system running mandatory ac-
cess controls, so we won’t go further into how they work, beyond ob-
serving that clearly the operating system is going to be involved in en-
forcing them. Should you ever need to work in an environment where
mandatory access control is important, you can be sure you will hear
about it. You should learn more about it at that point, since when some-
one cares enough to use mandatory access control mechanisms, they also
care enough to punish users who don’t follow the rules. Loscocco [L01]
describes a special version of Linux that incorporates mandatory access
control. This is a good paper to start with if you want to learn more about
the characteristics of such systems.
55.6 Practicalities Of Access Control Mechanisms
Most systems expose either a simple or more powerful access control
list mechanism to their users, and most of them use discretionary access
control. However, given that a modern computer can easily have hun-
dreds of thousands, or even millions of ﬁles, having human users indi-
vidually set access control permissions on them is infeasible. Generally,
the system allows each user to establish a default access permission that
is used for every ﬁle he creates. If one uses the Linux open() call to cre-
ate a ﬁle, one can specify which access permissions to initially assign to
that ﬁle. Access permissions on newly created ﬁles in Unix/Linux sys-
tems can be further controlled by the umask() call, which applies to all
new ﬁle creations by the process that performed it.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
