ACCESS CONTROL
13
ASIDE: THE ANDROID ACCESS CONTROL MODEL
The Android system is one of the leading software platforms for today’s mobile
computing devices, especially smart phones. These devices pose different access
control challenges than classic server computers, or even personal desktop com-
puters or laptops. Their functionality is based on the use of many relatively small
independent applications, commonly called apps, that are downloaded, installed,
and run on a device belonging to only a single user. Thus, there is no issue of
protecting multiple users on one machine from each other. If one used a standard
access control model, these apps would run under that user’s identity. But apps
are developed by many entities, and some may be malicious. Further, most apps
have no legitimate need for most of the resources on the device. If they are granted
too many privileges, a malicious app can access the phone owner’s contacts, make
phone calls, or buy things over the network, among many other undesirable be-
haviors. The principle of least privilege implies that we should not give apps the
full privileges belonging to owner, but they must have some privileges if they are
to do anything interesting.
Android runs on top of a version of Linux, and an application’s access limitations
are achieved in part by generating a new user ID for each installed app. The app
runs under that ID and its accesses can be controlled on that basis. However, the
Android middleware offers additional facilities for controlling access. Application
developers deﬁne accesses required by their app. When a user considers installing
an app on their device, they are shown what permissions it requires. The user can
either grant the app those permissions, not install the app, or limit its permissions,
though the latter choice may also limit app utility. Also, the developer speciﬁes
ways in which other apps can communicate with the new app. The data structure
used to encode this access information is called a permission label. An app’s
permission labels (both what it can access and what it provides to others) are set
at app design time, and encoded into a particular Android system at the moment
the app is installed on that machine.
Permission labels are thus like capabilities, since possession of them by the app
allows the app to do something, while lacking a label prevents the app from doing
that thing. An app’s set of permission labels is set statically at install time. The user
can subsequently change those permissions, although limiting them may damage
app functionality. Permission labels are a form of mandatory access control. The
Android security model is discussed in detail by Enck et al. [E+09].
The Android security approach is interesting, but not perfect. In particular, users
are not always aware of the implications of granting an application access to some-
thing, and, faced with the choice of granting the access or not being able to effec-
tively use the app, they will often grant it. This behavior can be problematic, if the
app is malicious.
If desired, the owner can alter that initial ACL, but experience shows
that users rarely do. This tendency demonstrates the importance of prop-
erly chosen defaults. Here, as in many other places in an operating sys-
tem, a theoretically changeable or tunable setting will, in practice, be used
unaltered by almost everyone almost always.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU (OSTEP)
© 2019–23, REIHER (SECURITY)
THREE
EASY
PIECES
