14
ACCESS CONTROL
However, while many will never touch access controls on their re-
sources, for an important set of users and systems these controls are of
vital importance to achieve their security goals. Even if you mostly rely
on defaults, many software installation packages use some degree of care
in setting access controls on executables and conﬁguration ﬁles they cre-
ate. Generally, you should exercise caution in ﬁddling around with access
controls in your system. If you don’t know what you’re doing, you might
expose sensitive information or allow attackers to alter critical system set-
tings. If you tighten existing access controls, you might suddenly cause a
bunch of daemon programs running in the background to stop working.
One practical issue that many large institutions discovered when try-
ing to use standard access control methods to implement their security
policies is that people performing different roles within the organization
require different privileges. For example, in a hospital, all doctors might
have a set of privileges not given to all pharmacists, who themselves have
privileges not given to the doctors. Organizing access control on the ba-
sis of such roles and then assigning particular users to the roles they are
allowed to perform makes implementation of many security policies eas-
ier. This approach is particularly valuable if certain users are permitted to
switch roles depending on the task they are currently performing, since
then one need not worry about setting or changing the individual’s access
permissions on the ﬂy, but simply switch their role from one to another.
Usually they will hold the role’s permission only as long as they maintain
that role. Once they exit the particular role (perhaps to enter a different
role with different privileges), they lose the privileges of the role they exit.
This observation led to the development of Role-Based Access Con-
trol, or RBAC. The core ideas had been around for some time before
they were more formally laid out in a research paper by Ferraiolo and
Kuhn [FK92]. Now RBAC is in common use in many organizations, par-
ticularly large ones. Large organizations face more serious management
challenges than small ones, so approaches like RBAC that allow groups of
users to be dealt with in one operation can signiﬁcantly ease the manage-
ment task. For example, if a company determines that all programmers
should be granted access to a new library that has been developed, but
accountants should not, RBAC would achieve this effect with a single op-
eration that assigns the necessary privilege to the Programmer role. If a
programmer is promoted to a management position for which access to
the library is unnecessary, the company can merely remove the Program-
mer role from the set of roles the manager could take on.
Such restrictions do not necessarily imply that you suspect your ac-
countants of being dishonest and prone to selling your secret library code
to competitors7. Remember the principle of least privilege: when you
give someone access to something, you are relying not just on their hon-
esty, but on their caution. If accountants can’t access the library at all,
7Dishonest accountants are generally good to avoid, so you probably did your best to hire
honest ones, after all. Unless you’re Bernie Madoff [W20], perhaps...
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
