ACCESS CONTROL
15
then neither malice nor carelessness on their part can lead to an accoun-
tant’s privileges leaking your library code. Least privilege is not just a
theoretically good idea, but a vital part of building secure systems in the
real world.
RBAC sounds a bit like using groups in access control lists, and there
is some similarity, but RBAC systems are a good deal more powerful than
mere group access permissions; RBAC systems allow a particular user to
take on multiple disjoint roles. Perhaps our programmer was promoted
to a management position, but still needs access to the library, for exam-
ple when another team member’s code needs to be tested. An RBAC sys-
tem would allow our programmer to switch between the role of manager
and programmer, temporarily leaving behind rights associated with the
manager and gaining rights associated with the programmer role. When
the manager tested someone else’s new code, the manager would have
permission to access the library, but would not have permission to ac-
cess team member performance reviews. Thus, if a sneaky programmer
slipped malicious code into the library (e.g., that tried to read other team
members’ performance reviews, or learn their salaries), the manager run-
ning that code would not unintentionally leak that information; using the
proper role at the proper time prevents it.
These systems often require a new authentication step to take on an
RBAC role, and usually taking on Role A requires relinquishing priv-
ileges associated with one’s previous role, say Role B. The manager’s
switch to the code testing role would result in temporarily relinquish-
ing privileges to examine the performance reviews. On completing the
testing, the manager would switch back to the role allowing access to the
reviews, losing privilege to access the library. RBAC systems may also
offer ﬁner granularity than merely being able to read or write a ﬁle. A
particular role (Salesperson, for instance) might be permitted to add a pur-
chase record for a particular product to a ﬁle, but would not be permitted
to add a re-stocking record for the same product to the same ﬁle, since
salespeople don’t do re-stocking. This degree of control is sometimes
called type enforcement. It associates detailed access rules to particular
objects using what is commonly called a security context for that object.
How exactly this is done has implications for performance, storage of the
security context information, and authentication.
One can build a very minimal RBAC system under Linux and similar
OSes using ACLs and groups. These systems have a feature in their ac-
cess control mechanism called privilege escalation. Privilege escalation
allows careful extension of privileges, typically by allowing a particular
program to run with a set of privileges beyond those of the user who in-
vokes them. In Unix and Linux systems, this feature is called setuid,
and it allows a program to run with privileges associated with a different
user, generally a user who has privileges not normally available to the
user who runs the program. However, those privileges are only granted
during the run of that program and are lost when the program exits. A
carefully written setuid program will only perform a limited set of oper-
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU (OSTEP)
© 2019–23, REIHER (SECURITY)
THREE
EASY
PIECES
