2
MECHANISM: LIMITED DIRECT EXECUTION
OS
Program
Create entry for process list
Allocate memory for program
Load program into memory
Set up stack with argc/argv
Clear registers
Execute call main()
Run main()
Execute return from main
Free memory of process
Remove from process list
Figure 6.1: Direct Execution Protocol (Without Limits)
to it, and starts running the user’s code. Figure 6.1 shows this basic di-
rect execution protocol (without any limits, yet), using a normal call and
return to jump to the program’s main() and later back into the kernel.
Sounds simple, no? But this approach gives rise to a few problems
in our quest to virtualize the CPU. The ﬁrst is simple: if we just run a
program, how can the OS make sure the program doesn’t do anything
that we don’t want it to do, while still running it efﬁciently? The second:
when we are running a process, how does the operating system stop it
from running and switch to another process, thus implementing the time
sharing we require to virtualize the CPU?
In answering these questions below, we’ll get a much better sense of
what is needed to virtualize the CPU. In developing these techniques,
we’ll also see where the “limited” part of the name arises from; without
limits on running programs, the OS wouldn’t be in control of anything
and thus would be “just a library” — a very sad state of affairs for an
aspiring operating system!
6.2 Problem #1: Restricted Operations
Direct execution has the obvious advantage of being fast; the program
runs natively on the hardware CPU and thus executes as quickly as one
would expect. But running on the CPU introduces a problem: what if
the process wishes to perform some kind of restricted operation, such
as issuing an I/O request to a disk, or gaining access to more system
resources such as CPU or memory?
THE CRUX: HOW TO PERFORM RESTRICTED OPERATIONS
A process must be able to perform I/O and some other restricted oper-
ations, but without giving the process complete control over the system.
How can the OS and hardware work together to do so?
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
