MECHANISM: LIMITED DIRECT EXECUTION
13
ASIDE: HOW LONG CONTEXT SWITCHES TAKE
A natural question you might have is: how long does something like a
context switch take? Or even a system call? For those of you that are cu-
rious, there is a tool called lmbench [MS96] that measures exactly those
things, as well as a few other performance measures that might be rele-
vant.
Results have improved quite a bit over time, roughly tracking processor
performance. For example, in 1996 running Linux 1.3.37 on a 200-MHz
P6 CPU, system calls took roughly 4 microseconds, and a context switch
roughly 6 microseconds [MS96]. Modern systems perform almost an or-
der of magnitude better, with sub-microsecond results on systems with
2- or 3-GHz processors.
It should be noted that not all operating-system actions track CPU per-
formance. As Ousterhout observed, many OS operations are memory
intensive, and memory bandwidth has not improved as dramatically as
processor speed over time [O90]. Thus, depending on your workload,
buying the latest and greatest processor may not speed up your OS as
much as you might hope.
of you who have children, or, at least, have heard of children, may be
familiar with the concept of baby prooﬁng a room: locking cabinets con-
taining dangerous stuff and covering electrical sockets. When the room is
thus readied, you can let your baby roam freely, secure in the knowledge
that the most dangerous aspects of the room have been restricted.
In an analogous manner, the OS “baby proofs” the CPU, by ﬁrst (dur-
ing boot time) setting up the trap handlers and starting an interrupt timer,
and then by only running processes in a restricted mode. By doing so, the
OS can feel quite assured that processes can run efﬁciently, only requir-
ing OS intervention to perform privileged operations or when they have
monopolized the CPU for too long and thus need to be switched out.
We thus have the basic mechanisms for virtualizing the CPU in place.
But a major question is left unanswered: which process should we run at
a given time? It is this question that the scheduler must answer, and thus
the next topic of our study.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
