MECHANISM: LIMITED DIRECT EXECUTION
3
ASIDE: WHY SYSTEM CALLS LOOK LIKE PROCEDURE CALLS
You may wonder why a call to a system call, such as open() or read(),
looks exactly like a typical procedure call in C; that is, if it looks just like
a procedure call, how does the system know it’s a system call, and do all
the right stuff? The simple reason: it is a procedure call, but hidden in-
side that procedure call is the famous trap instruction. More speciﬁcally,
when you call open() (for example), you are executing a procedure call
into the C library. Therein, whether for open() or any of the other sys-
tem calls provided, the library uses an agreed-upon calling convention
with the kernel to put the arguments to open() in well-known locations
(e.g., on the stack, or in speciﬁc registers), puts the system-call number
into a well-known location as well (again, onto the stack or a register),
and then executes the aforementioned trap instruction. The code in the
library after the trap unpacks return values and returns control to the
program that issued the system call. Thus, the parts of the C library that
make system calls are hand-coded in assembly, as they need to carefully
follow convention in order to process arguments and return values cor-
rectly, as well as execute the hardware-speciﬁc trap instruction. And now
you know why you personally don’t have to write assembly code to trap
into an OS; somebody has already written that assembly for you.
One approach would simply be to let any process do whatever it wants
in terms of I/O and other related operations. However, doing so would
prevent the construction of many kinds of systems that are desirable. For
example, if we wish to build a ﬁle system that checks permissions before
granting access to a ﬁle, we can’t simply let any user process issue I/Os
to the disk; if we did, a process could simply read or write the entire disk
and thus all protections would be lost.
Thus, the approach we take is to introduce a new processor mode,
known as user mode; code that runs in user mode is restricted in what it
can do. For example, when running in user mode, a process can’t issue
I/O requests; doing so would result in the processor raising an exception;
the OS would then likely kill the process.
In contrast to user mode is kernel mode, which the operating system
(or kernel) runs in. In this mode, code that runs can do what it likes, in-
cluding privileged operations such as issuing I/O requests and executing
all types of restricted instructions.
We are still left with a challenge, however: what should a user pro-
cess do when it wishes to perform some kind of privileged operation,
such as reading from disk? To enable this, virtually all modern hard-
ware provides the ability for user programs to perform a system call.
Pioneered on ancient machines such as the Atlas [K+61,L78], system calls
allow the kernel to carefully expose certain key pieces of functionality to
user programs, such as accessing the ﬁle system, creating and destroy-
ing processes, communicating with other processes, and allocating more
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
