4
MECHANISM: LIMITED DIRECT EXECUTION
TIP: USE PROTECTED CONTROL TRANSFER
The hardware assists the OS by providing different modes of execution.
In user mode, applications do not have full access to hardware resources.
In kernel mode, the OS has access to the full resources of the machine.
Special instructions to trap into the kernel and return-from-trap back to
user-mode programs are also provided, as well as instructions that allow
the OS to tell the hardware where the trap table resides in memory.
memory. Most operating systems provide a few hundred calls (see the
POSIX standard for details [P10]); early Unix systems exposed a more
concise subset of around twenty calls.
To execute a system call, a program must execute a special trap instruc-
tion. This instruction simultaneously jumps into the kernel and raises the
privilege level to kernel mode; once in the kernel, the system can now per-
form whatever privileged operations are needed (if allowed), and thus do
the required work for the calling process. When ﬁnished, the OS calls a
special return-from-trap instruction, which, as you might expect, returns
into the calling user program while simultaneously reducing the privi-
lege level back to user mode.
The hardware needs to be a bit careful when executing a trap, in that it
must make sure to save enough of the caller’s registers in order to be able
to return correctly when the OS issues the return-from-trap instruction.
On x86, for example, the processor will push the program counter, ﬂags,
and a few other registers onto a per-process kernel stack; the return-from-
trap will pop these values off the stack and resume execution of the user-
mode program (see the Intel systems manuals [I11] for details). Other
hardware systems use different conventions, but the basic concepts are
similar across platforms.
There is one important detail left out of this discussion: how does the
trap know which code to run inside the OS? Clearly, the calling process
can’t specify an address to jump to (as you would when making a pro-
cedure call); doing so would allow programs to jump anywhere into the
kernel which clearly is a Very Bad Idea1. Thus the kernel must carefully
control what code executes upon a trap.
The kernel does so by setting up a trap table at boot time. When the
machine boots up, it does so in privileged (kernel) mode, and thus is free
to conﬁgure machine hardware as need be. One of the ﬁrst things the OS
thus does is to tell the hardware what code to run when certain excep-
tional events occur. For example, what code should run when a hard-
disk interrupt takes place, when a keyboard interrupt occurs, or when
a program makes a system call? The OS informs the hardware of the
1Imagine jumping into code to access a ﬁle, but just after a permission check; in fact, it is
likely such an ability would enable a wily programmer to get the kernel to run arbitrary code
sequences [S07]. In general, try to avoid Very Bad Ideas like this one.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
