6
MECHANISM: LIMITED DIRECT EXECUTION
TIP: BE WARY OF USER INPUTS IN SECURE SYSTEMS
Even though we have taken great pains to protect the OS during system
calls (by adding a hardware trapping mechanism, and ensuring all calls to
the OS are routed through it), there are still many other aspects to imple-
menting a secure operating system that we must consider. One of these
is the handling of arguments at the system call boundary; the OS must
check what the user passes in and ensure that arguments are properly
speciﬁed, or otherwise reject the call.
For example, with a write() system call, the user speciﬁes an address
of a buffer as a source of the write call. If the user (either accidentally
or maliciously) passes in a “bad” address (e.g., one inside the kernel’s
portion of the address space), the OS must detect this and reject the call.
Otherwise, it would be possible for a user to read all of kernel memory;
given that kernel (virtual) memory also usually includes all of the physi-
cal memory of the system, this small slip would enable a program to read
the memory of any other process in the system.
In general, a secure system must treat user inputs with great suspicion.
Not doing so will undoubtedly lead to easily hacked software, a despair-
ing sense that the world is an unsafe and scary place, and the loss of job
security for the all-too-trusting OS developer.
To specify the exact system call, a system-call number is usually as-
signed to each system call. The user code is thus responsible for placing
the desired system-call number in a register or at a speciﬁed location on
the stack; the OS, when handling the system call inside the trap handler,
examines this number, ensures it is valid, and, if it is, executes the corre-
sponding code. This level of indirection serves as a form of protection;
user code cannot specify an exact address to jump to, but rather must
request a particular service via number.
One last aside: being able to execute the instruction to tell the hard-
ware where the trap tables are is a very powerful capability. Thus, as you
might have guessed, it is also a privileged operation. If you try to exe-
cute this instruction in user mode, the hardware won’t let you, and you
can probably guess what will happen (hint: adios, offending program).
Point to ponder: what horrible things could you do to a system if you
could install your own trap table? Could you take over the machine?
The timeline (with time increasing downward, in Figure 6.2) summa-
rizes the protocol. We assume each process has a kernel stack where reg-
isters (including general purpose registers and the program counter) are
saved to and restored from (by the hardware) when transitioning into and
out of the kernel.
There are two phases in the limited direct execution (LDE) protocol.
In the ﬁrst (at boot time), the kernel initializes the trap table, and the
CPU remembers its location for subsequent use. The kernel does so via a
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
