MECHANISM: LIMITED DIRECT EXECUTION
7
privileged instruction (all privileged instructions are highlighted in bold).
In the second (when running a process), the kernel sets up a few things
(e.g., allocating a node on the process list, allocating memory) before us-
ing a return-from-trap instruction to start the execution of the process;
this switches the CPU to user mode and begins running the process.
When the process wishes to issue a system call, it traps back into the OS,
which handles it and once again returns control via a return-from-trap
to the process. The process then completes its work, and returns from
main(); this usually will return into some stub code which will properly
exit the program (say, by calling the exit() system call, which traps into
the OS). At this point, the OS cleans up and we are done.
6.3 Problem #2: Switching Between Processes
The next problem with direct execution is achieving a switch between
processes. Switching between processes should be simple, right? The
OS should just decide to stop one process and start another. What’s the
big deal? But it actually is a little bit tricky: speciﬁcally, if a process is
running on the CPU, this by deﬁnition means the OS is not running. If
the OS is not running, how can it do anything at all? (hint: it can’t) While
this sounds almost philosophical, it is a real problem: there is clearly no
way for the OS to take an action if it is not running on the CPU. Thus we
arrive at the crux of the problem.
THE CRUX: HOW TO REGAIN CONTROL OF THE CPU
How can the operating system regain control of the CPU so that it can
switch between processes?
A Cooperative Approach: Wait For System Calls
One approach that some systems have taken in the past (for example,
early versions of the Macintosh operating system [M11], or the old Xerox
Alto system [A79]) is known as the cooperative approach. In this style,
the OS trusts the processes of the system to behave reasonably. Processes
that run for too long are assumed to periodically give up the CPU so that
the OS can decide to run some other task.
Thus, you might ask, how does a friendly process give up the CPU in
this utopian world? Most processes, as it turns out, transfer control of
the CPU to the OS quite frequently by making system calls, for example,
to open a ﬁle and subsequently read it, or to send a message to another
machine, or to create a new process. Systems like this often include an
explicit yield system call, which does nothing except to transfer control
to the OS so it can run other processes.
Applications also transfer control to the OS when they do something
illegal. For example, if an application divides by zero, or tries to access
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
