8
MECHANISM: LIMITED DIRECT EXECUTION
memory that it shouldn’t be able to access, it will generate a trap to the
OS. The OS will then have control of the CPU again (and likely terminate
the offending process).
Thus, in a cooperative scheduling system, the OS regains control of
the CPU by waiting for a system call or an illegal operation of some kind
to take place. You might also be thinking: isn’t this passive approach less
than ideal? What happens, for example, if a process (whether malicious,
or just full of bugs) ends up in an inﬁnite loop, and never makes a system
call? What can the OS do then?
A Non-Cooperative Approach: The OS Takes Control
Without some additional help from the hardware, it turns out the OS can’t
do much at all when a process refuses to make system calls (or mistakes)
and thus return control to the OS. In fact, in the cooperative approach,
your only recourse when a process gets stuck in an inﬁnite loop is to
resort to the age-old solution to all problems in computer systems: reboot
the machine. Thus, we again arrive at a subproblem of our general quest
to gain control of the CPU.
THE CRUX: HOW TO GAIN CONTROL WITHOUT COOPERATION
How can the OS gain control of the CPU even if processes are not being
cooperative? What can the OS do to ensure a rogue process does not take
over the machine?
The answer turns out to be simple and was discovered by a number
of people building computer systems many years ago: a timer interrupt
[M+63]. A timer device can be programmed to raise an interrupt every
so many milliseconds; when the interrupt is raised, the currently running
process is halted, and a pre-conﬁgured interrupt handler in the OS runs.
At this point, the OS has regained control of the CPU, and thus can do
what it pleases: stop the current process, and start a different one.
As we discussed before with system calls, the OS must inform the
hardware of which code to run when the timer interrupt occurs; thus,
at boot time, the OS does exactly that.
Second, also during the boot
TIP: DEALING WITH APPLICATION MISBEHAVIOR
Operating systems often have to deal with misbehaving processes, those
that either through design (maliciousness) or accident (bugs) attempt to
do something that they shouldn’t. In modern systems, the way the OS
tries to handle such malfeasance is to simply terminate the offender. One
strike and you’re out! Perhaps brutal, but what else should the OS do
when you try to access memory illegally or execute an illegal instruction?
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
