MECHANISM: LIMITED DIRECT EXECUTION
9
sequence, the OS must start the timer, which is of course a privileged
operation. Once the timer has begun, the OS can thus feel safe in that
control will eventually be returned to it, and thus the OS is free to run
user programs. The timer can also be turned off (also a privileged opera-
tion), something we will discuss later when we understand concurrency
in more detail.
Note that the hardware has some responsibility when an interrupt oc-
curs, in particular to save enough of the state of the program that was
running when the interrupt occurred such that a subsequent return-from-
trap instruction will be able to resume the running program correctly.
This set of actions is quite similar to the behavior of the hardware during
an explicit system-call trap into the kernel, with various registers thus
getting saved (e.g., onto a kernel stack) and thus easily restored by the
return-from-trap instruction.
Saving and Restoring Context
Now that the OS has regained control, whether cooperatively via a sys-
tem call, or more forcefully via a timer interrupt, a decision has to be
made: whether to continue running the currently-running process, or
switch to a different one. This decision is made by a part of the operating
system known as the scheduler; we will discuss scheduling policies in
great detail in the next few chapters.
If the decision is made to switch, the OS then executes a low-level
piece of code which we refer to as a context switch. A context switch is
conceptually simple: all the OS has to do is save a few register values
for the currently-executing process (onto its kernel stack, for example)
and restore a few for the soon-to-be-executing process (from its kernel
stack). By doing so, the OS thus ensures that when the return-from-trap
instruction is ﬁnally executed, instead of returning to the process that was
running, the system resumes execution of another process.
To save the context of the currently-running process, the OS will ex-
ecute some low-level assembly code to save the general purpose regis-
ters, PC, and the kernel stack pointer of the currently-running process,
and then restore said registers, PC, and switch to the kernel stack for the
soon-to-be-executing process. By switching stacks, the kernel enters the
call to the switch code in the context of one process (the one that was in-
terrupted) and returns in the context of another (the soon-to-be-executing
TIP: USE THE TIMER INTERRUPT TO REGAIN CONTROL
The addition of a timer interrupt gives the OS the ability to run again
on a CPU even if processes act in a non-cooperative fashion. Thus, this
hardware feature is essential in helping the OS maintain control of the
machine.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
