10
MECHANISM: LIMITED DIRECT EXECUTION
TIP: REBOOT IS USEFUL
Earlier on, we noted that the only solution to inﬁnite loops (and similar
behaviors) under cooperative preemption is to reboot the machine. While
you may scoff at this hack, researchers have shown that reboot (or in gen-
eral, starting over some piece of software) can be a hugely useful tool in
building robust systems [C+04].
Speciﬁcally, reboot is useful because it moves software back to a known
and likely more tested state.
Reboots also reclaim stale or leaked re-
sources (e.g., memory) which may otherwise be hard to handle. Finally,
reboots are easy to automate. For all of these reasons, it is not uncommon
in large-scale cluster Internet services for system management software
to periodically reboot sets of machines in order to reset them and thus
obtain the advantages listed above.
Thus, next time you reboot, you are not just enacting some ugly hack.
Rather, you are using a time-tested approach to improving the behavior
of a computer system. Well done!
one). When the OS then ﬁnally executes a return-from-trap instruction,
the soon-to-be-executing process becomes the currently-running process.
And thus the context switch is complete.
A timeline of the entire process is shown in Figure 6.3. In this example,
Process A is running and then is interrupted by the timer interrupt. The
hardware saves its registers (onto its kernel stack) and enters the kernel
(switching to kernel mode). In the timer interrupt handler, the OS decides
to switch from running Process A to Process B. At that point, it calls the
switch() routine, which carefully saves current register values (into the
process structure of A), restores the registers of Process B (from its process
structure entry), and then switches contexts, speciﬁcally by changing the
stack pointer to use B’s kernel stack (and not A’s). Finally, the OS returns-
from-trap, which restores B’s registers and starts running it.
Note that there are two types of register saves/restores that happen
during this protocol. The ﬁrst is when the timer interrupt occurs; in this
case, the user registers of the running process are implicitly saved by the
hardware, using the kernel stack of that process. The second is when the
OS decides to switch from A to B; in this case, the kernel registers are ex-
plicitly saved by the software (i.e., the OS), but this time into memory in
the process structure of the process. The latter action moves the system
from running as if it just trapped into the kernel from A to as if it just
trapped into the kernel from B.
To give you a better sense of how such a switch is enacted, Figure 6.4
shows the context switch code for xv6. See if you can make sense of it
(you’ll have to know a bit of x86, as well as some xv6, to do so). The
context structures old and new are found in the old and new process’s
process structures, respectively.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
