2
FILE SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION
ASIDE: MENTAL MODELS OF FILE SYSTEMS
As we’ve discussed before, mental models are what you are really trying
to develop when learning about systems. For ﬁle systems, your mental
model should eventually include answers to questions like: what on-disk
structures store the ﬁle system’s data and metadata? What happens when
a process opens a ﬁle? Which on-disk structures are accessed during a
read or write? By working on and improving your mental model, you
develop an abstract understanding of what is going on, instead of just
trying to understand the speciﬁcs of some ﬁle-system code (though that
is also useful, of course!).
more sophisticated ﬁle systems, like SGI’s XFS, use more complicated
tree-based structures [S+96].
The second aspect of a ﬁle system is its access methods. How does
it map the calls made by a process, such as open(), read(), write(),
etc., onto its structures? Which structures are read during the execution
of a particular system call? Which are written? How efﬁciently are all of
these steps performed?
If you understand the data structures and access methods of a ﬁle sys-
tem, you have developed a good mental model of how it truly works, a
key part of the systems mindset. Try to work on developing your mental
model as we delve into our ﬁrst implementation.
40.2 Overall Organization
We now develop the overall on-disk organization of the data struc-
tures of the vsfs ﬁle system. The ﬁrst thing we’ll need to do is divide the
disk into blocks; simple ﬁle systems use just one block size, and that’s
exactly what we’ll do here. Let’s choose a commonly-used size of 4 KB.
Thus, our view of the disk partition where we’re building our ﬁle sys-
tem is simple: a series of blocks, each of size 4 KB. The blocks are ad-
dressed from 0 to N −1, in a partition of size N 4-KB blocks. Assume we
have a really small disk, with just 64 blocks:
0
7
8
15 16
23 24
31
32
39 40
47 48
55 56
63
Let’s now think about what we need to store in these blocks to build
a ﬁle system. Of course, the ﬁrst thing that comes to mind is user data.
In fact, most of the space in any ﬁle system is (and should be) user data.
Let’s call the region of the disk we use for user data the data region, and,
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
