12
FILE SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION
ASIDE: READS DON’T ACCESS ALLOCATION STRUCTURES
We’ve seen many students get confused by allocation structures such as
bitmaps. In particular, many often think that when you are simply read-
ing a ﬁle, and not allocating any new blocks, that the bitmap will still
be consulted. This is not true! Allocation structures, such as bitmaps,
are only accessed when allocation is needed. The inodes, directories, and
indirect blocks have all the information they need to complete a read re-
quest; there is no need to make sure a block is allocated when the inode
already points to it.
inode of foo and then its directory data, ﬁnally ﬁnding the inode number
of bar. The ﬁnal step of open() is to read bar’s inode into memory; the
FS then does a ﬁnal permissions check, allocates a ﬁle descriptor for this
process in the per-process open-ﬁle table, and returns it to the user.
Once open, the program can then issue a read() system call to read
from the ﬁle. The ﬁrst read (at offset 0 unless lseek() has been called)
will thus read in the ﬁrst block of the ﬁle, consulting the inode to ﬁnd
the location of such a block; it may also update the inode with a new last-
accessed time. The read will further update the in-memory open ﬁle table
for this ﬁle descriptor, updating the ﬁle offset such that the next read will
read the second ﬁle block, etc.
At some point, the ﬁle will be closed. There is much less work to be
done here; clearly, the ﬁle descriptor should be deallocated, but for now,
that is all the FS really needs to do. No disk I/Os take place.
A depiction of this entire process is found in Figure 40.3 (page 11);
time increases downward in the ﬁgure. In the ﬁgure, the open causes
numerous reads to take place in order to ﬁnally locate the inode of the ﬁle.
Afterwards, reading each block requires the ﬁle system to ﬁrst consult the
inode, then read the block, and then update the inode’s last-accessed-time
ﬁeld with a write. Spend some time and understand what is going on.
Also note that the amount of I/O generated by the open is propor-
tional to the length of the pathname. For each additional directory in the
path, we have to read its inode as well as its data. Making this worse
would be the presence of large directories; here, we only have to read one
block to get the contents of a directory, whereas with a large directory, we
might have to read many data blocks to ﬁnd the desired entry. Yes, life
can get pretty bad when reading a ﬁle; as you’re about to ﬁnd out, writing
out a ﬁle (and especially, creating a new one) is even worse.
Writing A File To Disk
Writing to a ﬁle is a similar process. First, the ﬁle must be opened (as
above). Then, the application can issue write() calls to update the ﬁle
with new contents. Finally, the ﬁle is closed.
Unlike reading, writing to the ﬁle may also allocate a block (unless
the block is being overwritten, for example). When writing out a new
ﬁle, each write not only has to write data to disk but has to ﬁrst decide
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
