14
FILE SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION
Let’s look at a speciﬁc example, where the ﬁle /foo/bar is created,
and three blocks are written to it. Figure 40.4 (page 13) shows what hap-
pens during the open() (which creates the ﬁle) and during each of three
4KB writes.
In the ﬁgure, reads and writes to the disk are grouped under which
system call caused them to occur, and the rough ordering they might take
place in goes from top to bottom of the ﬁgure. You can see how much
work it is to create the ﬁle: 10 I/Os in this case, to walk the pathname and
then ﬁnally create the ﬁle2. You can also see that each allocating write
costs 5 I/Os: a pair to read and update the inode, another pair to read
and update the data bitmap, and then ﬁnally the write of the data itself.
How can a ﬁle system accomplish any of this with reasonable efﬁciency?
THE CRUX: HOW TO REDUCE FILE SYSTEM I/O COSTS
Even the simplest of operations like opening, reading, or writing a ﬁle
incurs a huge number of I/O operations, scattered over the disk. What
can a ﬁle system do to reduce the high costs of doing so many I/Os?
40.7 Caching and Buffering
As the examples above show, reading and writing ﬁles can be expen-
sive, incurring many I/Os to the (slow) disk. To remedy what would
clearly be a huge performance problem, most ﬁle systems aggressively
use system memory (DRAM) to cache important blocks.
Imagine the open example above: without caching, every ﬁle open
would require at least two reads for every level in the directory hierarchy
(one to read the inode of the directory in question, and at least one to read
its data). With a long pathname (e.g., /1/2/3/ ... /100/ﬁle.txt), the ﬁle
system would literally perform hundreds of reads just to open the ﬁle!
Early ﬁle systems thus introduced a ﬁxed-size cache to hold popular
blocks. As in our discussion of virtual memory, strategies such as LRU
and different variants would decide which blocks to keep in cache. This
ﬁxed-size cache would usually be allocated at boot time to be roughly
10% of total memory.
This static partitioning of memory, however, can be wasteful; what
if the ﬁle system doesn’t need 10% of memory at a given point in time?
With the ﬁxed-size approach described above, unused pages in the ﬁle
cache cannot be re-purposed for some other use, and thus go to waste.
Modern systems, in contrast, employ a dynamic partitioning approach.
Speciﬁcally, many modern operating systems integrate virtual memory
pages and ﬁle system pages into a uniﬁed page cache [S00]. In this way,
2One surprise here is that there is a read associated with the creation of the bar inode,
even though it is not yet initialized; can you guess why? (think...) Answer: this read occurs
because an inode (which is small) is contained within a larger block (e.g., 4KB). Thus, the
system performs a read-modify-write to update the newly allocated inode within the block.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
