FILE SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION
15
TIP: UNDERSTAND STATIC VS. DYNAMIC PARTITIONING
When dividing a resource among different clients/users, you can use
either static partitioning or dynamic partitioning. The static approach
simply divides the resource into ﬁxed proportions once; for example, if
there are two possible users of memory, you can give some ﬁxed fraction
of memory to one user, and the rest to the other. The dynamic approach
is more ﬂexible, giving out differing amounts of the resource over time;
for example, one user may get a higher percentage of disk bandwidth for
a period of time, but then later, the system may switch and decide to give
a different user a larger fraction of available disk bandwidth.
Each approach has its advantages. Static partitioning ensures each user
receives some share of the resource, usually delivers more predictable
performance, and is often easier to implement. Dynamic partitioning can
achieve better utilization (by letting resource-hungry users consume oth-
erwise idle resources), but can be more complex to implement, and can
lead to worse performance for users whose idle resources get consumed
by others and then take a long time to reclaim when needed. As is of-
ten the case, there is no best method; rather, you should think about the
problem at hand and decide which approach is most suitable. Indeed,
shouldn’t you always be doing that?
memory can be allocated more ﬂexibly across virtual memory and ﬁle
system, depending on which needs more memory at a given time.
Now imagine the ﬁle open example with caching. The ﬁrst open may
generate a lot of I/O trafﬁc to read in directory inode and data, but sub-
sequent ﬁle opens of that same ﬁle (or ﬁles in the same directory) will
mostly hit in the cache and thus no I/O is needed.
Let us also consider the effect of caching on writes. Whereas read I/O
can be avoided altogether with a sufﬁciently large cache, write trafﬁc has
to go to disk in order to become persistent. Thus, a cache does not serve
as the same kind of ﬁlter on write trafﬁc that it does for reads. That said,
write buffering (as it is sometimes called) certainly has a number of per-
formance beneﬁts. First, by delaying writes, the ﬁle system can batch
some updates into a smaller set of I/Os; for example, if an inode bitmap
is updated when one ﬁle is created and then updated moments later as
another ﬁle is created, the ﬁle system saves an I/O by delaying the write
after the ﬁrst update. Second, by buffering a number of writes in memory,
the system can then schedule the subsequent I/Os and thus increase per-
formance. Finally, some writes are avoided altogether by delaying them;
for example, if an application creates a ﬁle and then deletes it, delaying
the writes to reﬂect the ﬁle creation to disk avoids them entirely. In this
case, laziness (in writing blocks to disk) is a virtue.
For the reasons above, most modern ﬁle systems buffer writes in mem-
ory for anywhere between ﬁve and thirty seconds, representing yet an-
other trade-off: if the system crashes before the updates have been prop-
© 2008–26, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
