16
FILE SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION
TIP: UNDERSTAND THE DURABILITY/PERFORMANCE TRADE-OFF
Storage systems often present a durability/performance trade-off to
users. If the user wishes data that is written to be immediately durable,
the system must go through the full effort of committing the newly-
written data to disk, and thus the write is slow (but safe). However, if
the user can tolerate the loss of a little data, the system can buffer writes
in memory for some time and write them later to the disk (in the back-
ground). Doing so makes writes appear to complete quickly, thus im-
proving perceived performance; however, if a crash occurs, writes not
yet committed to disk will be lost, and hence the trade-off. To understand
how to make this trade-off properly, it is best to understand what the ap-
plication using the storage system requires; for example, while it may be
tolerable to lose the last few images downloaded by your web browser,
losing part of a database transaction that is adding money to your bank
account may be less tolerable. Unless you’re rich, of course; in that case,
why do you care so much about hoarding every last penny?
agated to disk, the updates are lost; however, by keeping writes in mem-
ory longer, performance can be improved by batching, scheduling, and
even avoiding writes.
Some applications (such as databases) don’t enjoy this trade-off. Thus,
to avoid unexpected data loss due to write buffering, they simply force
writes to disk, by calling fsync(), by using direct I/O interfaces that
work around the cache, or by using the raw disk interface and avoiding
the ﬁle system altogether3. While most applications live with the trade-
offs made by the ﬁle system, there are enough controls in place to get the
system to do what you want it to, should the default not be satisfying.
40.8 Summary
We have seen the basic machinery required in building a ﬁle system.
There needs to be some information about each ﬁle (metadata), usually
stored in a structure called an inode. Directories are just a speciﬁc type
of ﬁle that store name→inode-number mappings. And other structures
are needed too; for example, ﬁle systems often use a structure such as a
bitmap to track which inodes or data blocks are free or allocated.
The terriﬁc aspect of ﬁle system design is its freedom; the ﬁle systems
we explore in the coming chapters each take advantage of this freedom
to optimize some aspect of the ﬁle system. There are also clearly many
policy decisions we have left unexplored. For example, when a new ﬁle
is created, where should it be placed on disk? This policy and others will
also be the subject of future chapters. Or will they?4
3Take a database class to learn more about old-school databases and their former insis-
tence on avoiding the OS and controlling everything themselves.
But watch out!
Those
database types are always trying to bad mouth the OS. Shame on you, database people. Shame.
4Cue mysterious music that gets you even more intrigued about the topic of ﬁle systems.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
