FILE SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION
7
TIP: CONSIDER EXTENT-BASED APPROACHES
A different approach is to use extents instead of pointers. An extent is
simply a disk pointer plus a length (in blocks); thus, instead of requiring
a pointer for every block of a ﬁle, all one needs is a pointer and a length
to specify the on-disk location of a ﬁle. Just a single extent is limiting, as
one may have trouble ﬁnding a contiguous chunk of on-disk free space
when allocating a ﬁle. Thus, extent-based ﬁle systems often allow for
more than one extent, thus giving more freedom to the ﬁle system during
ﬁle allocation.
In comparing the two approaches, pointer-based approaches are the most
ﬂexible but use a large amount of metadata per ﬁle (particularly for large
ﬁles). Extent-based approaches are less ﬂexible but more compact; in par-
ticular, they work well when there is enough free space on the disk and
ﬁles can be laid out contiguously (which is the goal for virtually any ﬁle
allocation policy anyhow).
Not surprisingly, in such an approach, you might want to support
even larger ﬁles. To do so, just add another pointer to the inode: the dou-
ble indirect pointer. This pointer refers to a block that contains pointers
to indirect blocks, each of which contain pointers to data blocks. A dou-
ble indirect block thus adds the possibility to grow ﬁles with an additional
1024 · 1024 or 1-million 4KB blocks, in other words supporting ﬁles that
are over 4GB in size. You may want even more, though, and we bet you
know where this is headed: the triple indirect pointer.
Overall, this imbalanced tree is referred to as the multi-level index ap-
proach to pointing to ﬁle blocks. Let’s examine an example with twelve
direct pointers, as well as both a single and a double indirect block. As-
suming a block size of 4 KB, and 4-byte pointers, this structure can accom-
modate a ﬁle of just over 4 GB in size (i.e., (12 + 1024 + 10242) × 4 KB).
Can you ﬁgure out how big of a ﬁle can be handled with the addition of
a triple-indirect block? (hint: pretty big)
Many ﬁle systems use a multi-level index, including commonly-used
ﬁle systems such as Linux ext2 [P09] and ext3, NetApp’s WAFL, as well as
the original UNIX ﬁle system. Other ﬁle systems, including SGI XFS and
Linux ext4, use extents instead of simple pointers; see the earlier aside for
details on how extent-based schemes work (they are akin to segments in
the discussion of virtual memory).
You might be wondering: why use an imbalanced tree like this? Why
not a different approach? Well, as it turns out, many researchers have
studied ﬁle systems and how they are used, and virtually every time they
ﬁnd certain “truths” that hold across the decades. One such ﬁnding is
that most ﬁles are small. This imbalanced design reﬂects such a reality; if
most ﬁles are indeed small, it makes sense to optimize for this case. Thus,
with a small number of direct pointers (12 is a typical number), an inode
© 2008–26, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
