8
FILE SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION
Most ﬁles are small
˜2K is the most common size
Average ﬁle size is growing
Almost 200K is the average
Most bytes are stored in large ﬁles
A few big ﬁles use most of space
File systems contain lots of ﬁles
Almost 100K on average
File systems are roughly half full
Even as disks grow, ﬁle systems
remain ˜50% full
Directories are typically small
Many have few entries; most
have 20 or fewer
Figure 40.2: File System Measurement Summary
can directly point to 48 KB of data, needing one (or more) indirect blocks
for larger ﬁles. See Agrawal et. al [A+07] for a recent-ish study; Figure
40.2 summarizes those results.
Of course, in the space of inode design, many other possibilities ex-
ist; after all, the inode is just a data structure, and any data structure that
stores the relevant information, and can query it effectively, is sufﬁcient.
As ﬁle system software is readily changed, you should be willing to ex-
plore different designs should workloads or technologies change.
40.4 Directory Organization
In vsfs (as in many ﬁle systems), directories have a simple organiza-
tion; a directory basically just contains a list of (entry name, inode num-
ber) pairs. For each ﬁle or directory in a given directory, there is a string
and a number in the data block(s) of the directory. For each string, there
may also be a length (assuming variable-sized names).
For example, assume a directory dir (inode number 5) has three ﬁles
in it (foo, bar, and foobar_is_a_pretty_longname), with inode
numbers 12, 13, and 24 respectively. The on-disk data for dir might look
like:
inum | reclen | strlen | name
5
12
2
.
2
12
3
..
12
12
4
foo
13
12
4
bar
24
36
28
foobar_is_a_pretty_longname
In this example, each entry has an inode number, record length (the
total bytes for the name plus any left over space), string length (the actual
length of the name), and ﬁnally the name of the entry. Note that each di-
rectory has two extra entries, . “dot” and .. “dot-dot”; the dot directory
is just the current directory (in this example, dir), whereas dot-dot is the
parent directory (in this case, the root).
Deleting a ﬁle (e.g., calling unlink()) can leave an empty space in
the middle of the directory, and hence there should be some way to mark
that as well (e.g., with a reserved inode number such as zero). Such a
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
