FILE SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION
9
ASIDE: LINKED-BASED APPROACHES
Another simpler approach in designing inodes is to use a linked list.
Thus, inside an inode, instead of having multiple pointers, you just need
one, to point to the ﬁrst block of the ﬁle. To handle larger ﬁles, add an-
other pointer at the end of that data block, and so on, and thus you can
support large ﬁles.
As you might have guessed, linked ﬁle allocation performs poorly for
some workloads; think about reading the last block of a ﬁle, for example,
or just doing random access. Thus, to make linked allocation work better,
some systems will keep an in-memory table of link information, instead
of storing the next pointers with the data blocks themselves. The table
is indexed by the address of a data block D; the content of an entry is
simply D’s next pointer, i.e., the address of the next block in a ﬁle which
follows D. A null-value could be there too (indicating an end-of-ﬁle), or
some other marker to indicate that a particular block is free. Having such
a table of next pointers makes it so that a linked allocation scheme can
effectively do random ﬁle accesses, simply by ﬁrst scanning through the
(in memory) table to ﬁnd the desired block, and then accessing (on disk)
it directly.
Does such a table sound familiar? What we have described is the basic
structure of what is known as the ﬁle allocation table, or FAT ﬁle system.
Yes, this classic old Windows ﬁle system, before NTFS [C94], is based on a
simple linked-based allocation scheme. There are other differences from
a standard UNIX ﬁle system too; for example, there are no inodes per se,
but rather directory entries which store metadata about a ﬁle and refer
directly to the ﬁrst block of said ﬁle, which makes creating hard links
impossible. See Brouwer [B02] for more of the inelegant details.
delete is one reason the record length is used: a new entry may reuse an
old, bigger entry and thus have extra space within.
You might be wondering where exactly directories are stored. Often,
ﬁle systems treat directories as a special type of ﬁle. Thus, a directory has
an inode, somewhere in the inode table (with the type ﬁeld of the inode
marked as “directory” instead of “regular ﬁle”). The directory has data
blocks pointed to by the inode (and perhaps, indirect blocks); these data
blocks live in the data block region of our simple ﬁle system. Our on-disk
structure thus remains unchanged.
We should also note again that this simple linear list of directory en-
tries is not the only way to store such information. As before, any data
structure is possible. For example, XFS [S+96] stores directories in B-tree
form, making ﬁle create operations (which have to ensure that a ﬁle name
has not been used before creating it) faster than systems with simple lists
that must be scanned in their entirety.
© 2008–26, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
