10
FILE SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION
ASIDE: FREE SPACE MANAGEMENT
There are many ways to manage free space; bitmaps are just one way.
Some early ﬁle systems used free lists, where a single pointer in the super
block was kept to point to the ﬁrst free block; inside that block the next
free pointer was kept, thus forming a list through the free blocks of the
system. When a block was needed, the head block was used and the list
updated accordingly.
Modern ﬁle systems use more sophisticated data structures. For example,
SGI’s XFS [S+96] uses some form of a B-tree to compactly represent which
chunks of the disk are free. As with any data structure, different time-
space trade-offs are possible.
40.5 Free Space Management
A ﬁle system must track which inodes and data blocks are free, and
which are not, so that when a new ﬁle or directory is allocated, it can ﬁnd
space for it. Thus free space management is important for all ﬁle systems.
In vsfs, we have two simple bitmaps for this task.
For example, when we create a ﬁle, we will have to allocate an inode
for that ﬁle. The ﬁle system will thus search through the bitmap for an in-
ode that is free, and allocate it to the ﬁle; the ﬁle system will have to mark
the inode as used (with a 1) and eventually update the on-disk bitmap
with the correct information. A similar set of activities take place when a
data block is allocated.
Some other considerations might also come into play when allocating
data blocks for a new ﬁle. For example, some Linux ﬁle systems, such
as ext2 and ext3, will look for a sequence of blocks (say 8) that are free
when a new ﬁle is created and needs data blocks; by ﬁnding such a se-
quence of free blocks, and then allocating them to the newly-created ﬁle,
the ﬁle system guarantees that a portion of the ﬁle will be contiguous on
the disk, thus improving performance. Such a pre-allocation policy is
thus a commonly-used heuristic when allocating space for data blocks.
40.6 Access Paths: Reading and Writing
Now that we have some idea of how ﬁles and directories are stored on
disk, we should be able to follow the ﬂow of operation during the activity
of reading or writing a ﬁle. Understanding what happens on this access
path is thus the second key in developing an understanding of how a ﬁle
system works; pay attention!
For the following examples, let us assume that the ﬁle system has been
mounted and thus that the superblock is already in memory. Everything
else (i.e., inodes, directories) is still on the disk.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
