36
I/O Devices
Before delving into the main content of this part of the book (on persis-
tence), we ﬁrst introduce the concept of an input/output (I/O) device and
show how the operating system might interact with such an entity. I/O is
quite critical to computer systems, of course; imagine a program without
any input (it produces the same result each time); now imagine a pro-
gram with no output (what was the purpose of it running?). Clearly, for
computer systems to be interesting, both input and output are required.
And thus, our general problem:
CRUX: HOW TO INTEGRATE I/O INTO SYSTEMS
How should I/O be integrated into systems? What are the general
mechanisms? How can we make them efﬁcient?
36.1 System Architecture
To begin our discussion, let’s look at a “classical” diagram of a typical
system (Figure 36.1, page 2). The picture shows a single CPU attached
to the main memory of the system via some kind of memory bus or in-
terconnect. Some devices are connected to the system via a general I/O
bus, which in many modern systems would be PCI (or one of its many
derivatives); graphics and some other higher-performance I/O devices
might be found here. Finally, even lower down are one or more of what
we call a peripheral bus, such as SCSI, SATA, or USB. These connect
slow devices to the system, including disks, mice, and keyboards.
One question you might ask is: why do we need a hierarchical struc-
ture like this? Put simply: physics, and cost. The faster a bus is, the
shorter it must be; thus, a high-performance memory bus does not have
much room to plug devices and such into it. In addition, engineering
a bus for high performance is quite costly. Thus, system designers have
adopted this hierarchical approach, where components that demand high
performance (such as the graphics card) are nearer the CPU. Lower per-
formance components are further away. The beneﬁts of placing disks and
other slow devices on a peripheral bus are manifold; in particular, you
can place a large number of devices on it.
1
