I/O DEVICES
11
• Data transfer (for writes): Wait until drive status is READY and
DRQ (drive request for data); write data to data port.
• Handle interrupts. In the simplest case, handle an interrupt for
each sector transferred; more complex approaches allow batching
and thus one ﬁnal interrupt when the entire transfer is complete.
• Error handling. After each operation, read the status register. If the
ERROR bit is on, read the error register for details.
Most of this protocol is found in the xv6 IDE driver (Figure 36.6),
which (after initialization) works through four primary functions. The
ﬁrst is ide_rw(), which queues a request (if there are others pending),
or issues it directly to the disk (via ide_start_request()); in either
case, the routine waits for the request to complete and the calling process
is put to sleep. The second is ide_start_request(), which is used
to send a request (and perhaps data, in the case of a write) to the disk;
the in and out x86 instructions are called to read and write device regis-
ters, respectively. The start request routine uses the third function, ide_-
wait_ready(), to ensure the drive is ready before issuing a request to it.
Finally, ide_intr() is invoked when an interrupt takes place; it reads
data from the device (if the request is a read, not a write), wakes the pro-
cess waiting for the I/O to complete, and (if there are more requests in
the I/O queue), launches the next I/O via ide_start_request().
36.9 Historical Notes
Before ending, we include a brief historical note on the origin of some
of these fundamental ideas. If you are interested in learning more, read
Smotherman’s excellent summary [S08].
Interrupts are an ancient idea, existing on the earliest of machines. For
example, the UNIVAC in the early 1950’s had some form of interrupt vec-
toring, although it is unclear in exactly which year this feature was avail-
able [S08]. Sadly, even in its infancy, we are beginning to lose the origins
of computing history.
There is also some debate as to which machine ﬁrst introduced the idea
of DMA. For example, Knuth and others point to the DYSEAC (a “mo-
bile” machine, which at the time meant it could be hauled in a trailer),
whereas others think the IBM SAGE may have been the ﬁrst [S08]. Ei-
ther way, by the mid 50’s, systems with I/O devices that communicated
directly with memory and interrupted the CPU when ﬁnished existed.
The history here is difﬁcult to trace because the inventions are tied to
real, and sometimes obscure, machines. For example, some think that the
Lincoln Labs TX-2 machine was ﬁrst with vectored interrupts [S08], but
this is hardly clear.
© 2008–25, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
