4
I/O DEVICES
Other Hardware-specific Chips
Memory (DRAM or SRAM or both)
Micro-controller (CPU)
Registers
Status
Command
Data
Interface
Internals
Figure 36.3: A Canonical Device
36.3 The Canonical Protocol
In the picture above, the (simpliﬁed) device interface is comprised of
three registers: a status register, which can be read to see the current sta-
tus of the device; a command register, to tell the device to perform a cer-
tain task; and a data register to pass data to the device, or get data from
the device. By reading and writing these registers, the operating system
can control device behavior.
Let us now describe a typical interaction that the OS might have with
the device in order to get the device to do something on its behalf. The
protocol is as follows:
While (STATUS == BUSY)
; // wait until device is not busy
Write data to DATA register
Write command to COMMAND register
(starts the device and executes the command)
While (STATUS == BUSY)
; // wait until device is done with your request
The protocol has four steps. In the ﬁrst, the OS waits until the device is
ready to receive a command by repeatedly reading the status register; we
call this polling the device (basically, just asking it what is going on). Sec-
ond, the OS sends some data down to the data register; one can imagine
that if this were a disk, for example, that multiple writes would need to
take place to transfer a disk block (say 4KB) to the device. When the main
CPU is involved with the data movement (as in this example protocol),
we refer to it as programmed I/O (PIO). Third, the OS writes a command
to the command register; doing so implicitly lets the device know that
both the data is present and that it should begin working on the com-
mand. Finally, the OS waits for the device to ﬁnish by again polling it
in a loop, waiting to see if it is ﬁnished (it may then get an error code to
indicate success or failure).
This basic protocol has the positive aspect of being simple and work-
ing. However, there are some inefﬁciencies and inconveniences involved.
The ﬁrst problem you might notice in the protocol is that polling seems
inefﬁcient; speciﬁcally, it wastes a great deal of CPU time just waiting for
the (potentially slow) device to complete its activity, instead of switching
to another ready process and thus better utilizing the CPU.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
