8
I/O DEVICES
For example, on x86, the in and out instructions can be used to com-
municate with devices. For example, to send data to a device, the caller
speciﬁes a register with the data in it, and a speciﬁc port which names the
device. Executing the instruction leads to the desired behavior.
Such instructions are usually privileged. The OS controls devices, and
the OS thus is the only entity allowed to directly communicate with them.
Imagine if any program could read or write the disk, for example: total
chaos (as always), as any user program could use such a loophole to gain
complete control over the machine.
The second method to interact with devices is known as memory-
mapped I/O. With this approach, the hardware makes device registers
available as if they were memory locations. To access a particular register,
the OS issues a load (to read) or store (to write) the address; the hardware
then routes the load/store to the device instead of main memory.
There is not some great advantage to one approach or the other. The
memory-mapped approach is nice in that no new instructions are needed
to support it, but both approaches are still in use today.
36.7 Fitting Into The OS: The Device Driver
One ﬁnal problem we will discuss: how to ﬁt devices, each of which
have very speciﬁc interfaces, into the OS, which we would like to keep
as general as possible. For example, consider a ﬁle system. We’d like
to build a ﬁle system that worked on top of SCSI disks, IDE disks, USB
keychain drives, and so forth, and we’d like the ﬁle system to be relatively
oblivious to all of the details of how to issue a read or write request to
these different types of drives. Thus, our problem:
THE CRUX: HOW TO BUILD A DEVICE-NEUTRAL OS
How can we keep most of the OS device-neutral, thus hiding the de-
tails of device interactions from major OS subsystems?
The problem is solved through the age-old technique of abstraction.
At the lowest level, a piece of software in the OS must know in detail
how a device works. We call this piece of software a device driver, and
any speciﬁcs of device interaction are encapsulated within.
Let us see how this abstraction might help OS design and implemen-
tation by examining the Linux ﬁle system software stack. Figure 36.4 is
a rough and approximate depiction of the Linux software organization.
As you can see from the diagram, a ﬁle system (and certainly, an appli-
cation above) is completely oblivious to the speciﬁcs of which disk class
it is using; it simply issues block read and write requests to the generic
block layer, which routes them to the appropriate device driver, which
handles the details of issuing the speciﬁc request. Although simpliﬁed,
the diagram shows how such detail can be hidden from most of the OS.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
