2
LABORATORY: SYSTEMS PROJECTS
G.2 UNIX Shell
In this project, students build a variant of a UNIX shell. Students learn
about process management as well as how mysterious things like pipes
and redirects actually work. Variants include unusual features, like a
redirection symbol that also compresses the output via gzip. Another
variant is a batch mode which allows the user to batch up a few requests
and then execute them, perhaps using different scheduling disciplines.
G.3 Memory-allocation Library
This project explores how a chunk of memory is managed, by building
an alternative memory-allocation library (like malloc() and free()
but with different names). The project teaches students how to use mmap()
to get a chunk of anonymous memory, and then about pointers in great
detail in order to build a simple (or perhaps, more complex) free list to
manage the space. Variants include: best/worst ﬁt, buddy, and various
other allocators.
G.4 Intro to Concurrency
This project introduces concurrent programming with POSIX threads.
Build some simple thread-safe libraries: a list, hash table, and some more
complicated data structures are good exercises in adding locks to real-
world code. Measure the performance of coarse-grained versus ﬁne-grained
alternatives. Variants just focus on different (and perhaps more complex)
data structures.
G.5 Concurrent Web Server
This project explores the use of concurrency in a real-world applica-
tion. Students take a simple web server (or build one) and add a thread
pool to it, in order to serve requests concurrently. The thread pool should
be of a ﬁxed size, and use a producer/consumer bounded buffer to pass
requests from a main thread to the ﬁxed pool of workers. Learn how
threads, locks, and condition variables are used to build a real server.
Variants include scheduling policies for the threads.
G.6 File System Checker
This project explores on-disk data structures and their consistency.
Students build a simple ﬁle system checker. The debugfs tool can be
used on Linux to make real ﬁle-system images; crawl through them and
make sure all is well. To make it more difﬁcult, also ﬁx any problems that
are found. Variants focus on different types of problems: pointers, link
counts, use of indirect blocks, etc.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
