2
INTERLUDE: FILES AND DIRECTORIES
/
foo
bar.txt
bar
foo
bar
bar.txt
Figure 39.1: An Example Directory Tree
name (as we will see). For historical reasons, the low-level name of a ﬁle
is often referred to as its inode number (i-number). We’ll be learning a
lot more about inodes in future chapters; for now, just assume that each
ﬁle has an inode number associated with it.
In most systems, the OS does not know much about the structure of
the ﬁle (e.g., whether it is a picture, or a text ﬁle, or C code); rather, the
responsibility of the ﬁle system is simply to store such data persistently
on disk and make sure that when you request the data again, you get
what you put there in the ﬁrst place. Doing so is not as simple as it seems!
The second abstraction is that of a directory. A directory, like a ﬁle,
also has a low-level name (i.e., an inode number), but its contents are
quite speciﬁc: it contains a list of (user-readable name, low-level name)
pairs. For example, let’s say there is a ﬁle with the low-level name “10”,
and it is referred to by the user-readable name of “foo”. The directory
that “foo” resides in thus would have an entry (“foo”, “10”) that maps
the user-readable name to the low-level name. Each entry in a directory
refers to either ﬁles or other directories. By placing directories within
other directories, users are able to build an arbitrary directory tree (or
directory hierarchy), under which all ﬁles and directories are stored.
The directory hierarchy starts at a root directory (in UNIX-based sys-
tems, the root directory is simply referred to as /) and uses some kind
of separator to name subsequent sub-directories until the desired ﬁle or
directory is named. For example, if a user created a directory foo in the
root directory /, and then created a ﬁle bar.txt in the directory foo,
we could refer to the ﬁle by its absolute pathname, which in this case
would be /foo/bar.txt. See Figure 39.1 for a more complex directory
tree; valid directories in the example are /, /foo, /bar, /bar/bar,
/bar/foo and valid ﬁles are /foo/bar.txt and /bar/foo/bar.txt.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
