12
INTERLUDE: FILES AND DIRECTORIES
39.7 Writing Immediately With fsync()
Most times when a program calls write(), it is just telling the ﬁle
system: please write this data to persistent storage, at some point in the
future. The ﬁle system, for performance reasons, will buffer such writes
in memory for some time (say 5 seconds, or 30); at that later point in
time, the write(s) will actually be issued to the storage device. From the
perspective of the calling application, writes seem to complete quickly,
and only in rare cases (e.g., the machine crashes after the write() call
but before the write to disk) will data be lost.
However, some applications require something more than this even-
tual guarantee. For example, in a database management system (DBMS),
development of a correct recovery protocol requires the ability to force
writes to disk from time to time.
To support these types of applications, most ﬁle systems provide some
additional control APIs. In the UNIX world, the interface provided to ap-
plications is known as fsync(int fd). When a process calls fsync()
for a particular ﬁle descriptor, the ﬁle system responds by forcing all dirty
(i.e., not yet written) data to disk, for the ﬁle referred to by the speciﬁed
ﬁle descriptor. The fsync() routine returns once all of these writes are
complete.
Here is a simple example of how to use fsync(). The code opens
the ﬁle foo, writes a single chunk of data to it, and then calls fsync()
to ensure the writes are forced immediately to disk. Once the fsync()
returns, the application can safely move on, knowing that the data has
been persisted (if fsync() is correctly implemented, that is).
int fd = open("foo", O_CREAT|O_WRONLY|O_TRUNC,
S_IRUSR|S_IWUSR);
assert(fd > -1);
int rc = write(fd, buffer, size);
assert(rc == size);
rc = fsync(fd);
assert(rc == 0);
Interestingly, this sequence does not guarantee everything that you
might expect; in some cases, you also need to fsync() the directory that
contains the ﬁle foo. Adding this step ensures not only that the ﬁle itself
is on disk, but that the ﬁle, if newly created, also is durably a part of the
directory. Not surprisingly, this type of detail is often overlooked, leading
to many application-level bugs [P+13,P+14].
39.8 Renaming Files
Once we have a ﬁle, it is sometimes useful to be able to give a ﬁle a
different name. When typing at the command line, this is accomplished
with mv command; in this example, the ﬁle foo is renamed bar:
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
