14
INTERLUDE: FILES AND DIRECTORIES
prompt> mv foo bar
Using strace, we can see that mv uses the system call rename(char
*old, char *new), which takes precisely two arguments: the original
name of the ﬁle (old) and the new name (new).
One interesting guarantee provided by the rename() call is that it is
(usually) implemented as an atomic call with respect to system crashes;
if the system crashes during the renaming, the ﬁle will either be named
the old name or the new name, and no odd in-between state can arise.
Thus, rename() is critical for supporting certain kinds of applications
that require an atomic update to ﬁle state.
Let’s be a little more speciﬁc here. Imagine that you are using a ﬁle ed-
itor (e.g., emacs), and you insert a line into the middle of a ﬁle. The ﬁle’s
name, for the example, is foo.txt. The way the editor might update the
ﬁle to guarantee that the new ﬁle has the original contents plus the line
inserted is as follows (ignoring error-checking for simplicity):
int fd = open("foo.txt.tmp", O_WRONLY|O_CREAT|O_TRUNC,
S_IRUSR|S_IWUSR);
write(fd, buffer, size); // write out new version of file
fsync(fd);
close(fd);
rename("foo.txt.tmp", "foo.txt");
What the editor does in this example is simple: write out the new
version of the ﬁle under a temporary name (foo.txt.tmp), force it to
disk with fsync(), and then, when the application is certain the new
ﬁle metadata and contents are on the disk, rename the temporary ﬁle to
the original ﬁle’s name. This last step atomically swaps the new ﬁle into
place, while concurrently deleting the old version of the ﬁle, and thus an
atomic ﬁle update is achieved.
39.9 Getting Information About Files
Beyond ﬁle access, we expect the ﬁle system to keep a fair amount
of information about each ﬁle it is storing. We generally call such data
about ﬁles metadata. To see the metadata for a certain ﬁle, we can use the
stat() or fstat() system calls. These calls take a pathname (or ﬁle
descriptor) to a ﬁle and ﬁll in a stat structure as seen in Figure 39.5.
You can see that there is a lot of information kept about each ﬁle, in-
cluding its size (in bytes), its low-level name (i.e., inode number), some
ownership information, and some information about when the ﬁle was
accessed or modiﬁed, among other things. To see this information, you
can use the command line tool stat. In this example, we ﬁrst create
a ﬁle (called file) and then use the stat command line tool to learn
some things about the ﬁle.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
