16
INTERLUDE: FILES AND DIRECTORIES
Let’s use our old friend strace again to ﬁnd out. Here we remove
that pesky ﬁle foo:
prompt> strace rm foo
...
unlink("foo")
= 0
...
We’ve removed a bunch of unrelated cruft from the traced output,
leaving just a single call to the mysteriously-named system call unlink().
As you can see, unlink() just takes the name of the ﬁle to be removed,
and returns zero upon success. But this leads us to a great puzzle: why
is this system call named unlink? Why not just remove or delete?
To understand the answer to this puzzle, we must ﬁrst understand more
than just ﬁles, but also directories.
39.11 Making Directories
Beyond ﬁles, a set of directory-related system calls enable you to make,
read, and delete directories. Note you can never write to a directory di-
rectly. Because the format of the directory is considered ﬁle system meta-
data, the ﬁle system considers itself responsible for the integrity of direc-
tory data; thus, you can only update a directory indirectly by, for exam-
ple, creating ﬁles, directories, or other object types within it. In this way,
the ﬁle system makes sure that directory contents are as expected.
To create a directory, a single system call, mkdir(), is available. The
eponymous mkdir program can be used to create such a directory. Let’s
take a look at what happens when we run the mkdir program to make a
simple directory called foo:
prompt> strace mkdir foo
...
mkdir("foo", 0777)
= 0
...
prompt>
When such a directory is created, it is considered “empty”, although it
does have a bare minimum of contents. Speciﬁcally, an empty directory
has two entries: one entry that refers to itself, and one entry that refers
to its parent. The former is referred to as the “.” (dot) directory, and the
latter as “..” (dot-dot). You can see these directories by passing a ﬂag (-a)
to the program ls:
prompt> ls -a
./
../
prompt> ls -al
total 8
drwxr-x---
2 remzi remzi
6 Apr 30 16:17 ./
drwxr-x--- 26 remzi remzi 4096 Apr 30 16:17 ../
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
