INTERLUDE: FILES AND DIRECTORIES
19
Here we created a ﬁle with the word “hello” in it, and called the ﬁle
file2. We then create a hard link to that ﬁle using the ln program. After
this, we can examine the ﬁle by either opening file or file2.
The way link() works is that it simply creates another name in the
directory you are creating the link to, and refers it to the same inode num-
ber (i.e., low-level name) of the original ﬁle. The ﬁle is not copied in any
way; rather, you now just have two human-readable names (file and
file2) that both refer to the same ﬁle. We can even see this in the direc-
tory itself, by printing out the inode number of each ﬁle:
prompt> ls -i file file2
67158084 file
67158084 file2
prompt>
By passing the -i ﬂag to ls, it prints out the inode number of each ﬁle
(as well as the ﬁle name). And thus you can see what link really has done:
just make a new reference to the same exact inode number (67158084 in
this example).
By now you might be starting to see why unlink() is called unlink().
When you create a ﬁle, you are really doing two things. First, you are
making a structure (the inode) that will track virtually all relevant infor-
mation about the ﬁle, including its size, where its blocks are on disk, and
so forth. Second, you are linking a human-readable name to that ﬁle, and
putting that link into a directory.
After creating a hard link to a ﬁle, the ﬁle system perceives no dif-
ference between the original ﬁle name (file) and the newly created ﬁle
name (file2); indeed, they are both just links to the underlying meta-
data about the ﬁle, which is found in inode number 67158084.
Thus, to remove a ﬁle from the ﬁle system, we call unlink(). In the
example above, we could for example remove the ﬁle named file, and
still access the ﬁle without difﬁculty:
prompt> rm file
removed ‘file’
prompt> cat file2
hello
The reason this works is because when the ﬁle system unlinks ﬁle, it
checks a reference count within the inode number. This reference count
(sometimes called the link count) allows the ﬁle system to track how
many different ﬁle names have been linked to this particular inode. When
unlink() is called, it removes the “link” between the human-readable
2Note again how creative the authors of this book are. We also used to have a cat named
“Cat” (true story). However, she died, and we now have a hamster named “Hammy.” Update:
Hammy is now dead too. The pet bodies are piling up.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
