INTERLUDE: FILES AND DIRECTORIES
3
TIP: THINK CAREFULLY ABOUT NAMING
Naming is an important aspect of computer systems [SK09]. In UNIX
systems, virtually everything that you can think of is named through the
ﬁle system. Beyond just ﬁles, devices, pipes, and even processes [K84]
can be found in what looks like a plain old ﬁle system. This uniformity
of naming eases your conceptual model of the system, and makes the
system simpler and more modular. Thus, whenever creating a system or
interface, think carefully about what names you are using.
Directories and ﬁles can have the same name as long as they are in dif-
ferent locations in the ﬁle-system tree (e.g., there are two ﬁles named
bar.txt in the ﬁgure, /foo/bar.txt and /bar/foo/bar.txt).
You may also notice that the ﬁle name in this example often has two
parts: bar and txt, separated by a period. The ﬁrst part is an arbitrary
name, whereas the second part of the ﬁle name is usually used to indi-
cate the type of the ﬁle, e.g., whether it is C code (e.g., .c), or an image
(e.g., .jpg), or a music ﬁle (e.g., .mp3). However, this is usually just a
convention: there is usually no enforcement that the data contained in a
ﬁle named main.c is indeed C source code.
Thus, we can see one great thing provided by the ﬁle system: a conve-
nient way to name all the ﬁles we are interested in. Names are important
in systems as the ﬁrst step to accessing any resource is being able to name
it. In UNIX systems, the ﬁle system thus provides a uniﬁed way to access
ﬁles on disk, USB stick, CD-ROM, many other devices, and in fact many
other things, all located under the single directory tree.
39.2 The File System Interface
Let’s now discuss the ﬁle system interface in more detail. We’ll start
with the basics of creating, accessing, and deleting ﬁles. You may think
this is straightforward, but along the way we’ll discover the mysterious
call that is used to remove ﬁles, known as unlink(). Hopefully, by the
end of this chapter, this mystery won’t be so mysterious to you!
39.3 Creating Files
We’ll start with the most basic of operations: creating a ﬁle. This can be
accomplished with the open system call; by calling open() and passing
it the O CREAT ﬂag, a program can create a new ﬁle. Here is some exam-
ple code to create a ﬁle called “foo” in the current working directory:
int fd = open("foo", O_CREAT|O_WRONLY|O_TRUNC,
S_IRUSR|S_IWUSR);
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
