50
The Andrew File System (AFS)
The Andrew File System was introduced at Carnegie-Mellon University
(CMU) 1 in the 1980’s [H+88]. Led by the well-known Professor M. Satya-
narayanan of Carnegie-Mellon University (“Satya” for short), the main
goal of this project was simple: scale. Speciﬁcally, how can one design a
distributed ﬁle system such that a server can support as many clients as
possible?
Interestingly, there are numerous aspects of design and implementa-
tion that affect scalability. Most important is the design of the protocol be-
tween clients and servers. In NFS, for example, the protocol forces clients
to check with the server periodically to determine if cached contents have
changed; because each check uses server resources (including CPU and
network bandwidth), frequent checks like this will limit the number of
clients a server can respond to and thus limit scalability.
AFS also differs from NFS in that from the beginning, reasonable user-
visible behavior was a ﬁrst-class concern. In NFS, cache consistency is
hard to describe because it depends directly on low-level implementa-
tion details, including client-side cache timeout intervals. In AFS, cache
consistency is simple and readily understood: when the ﬁle is opened, a
client will generally receive the latest consistent copy from the server.
50.1 AFS Version 1
We will discuss two versions of AFS [H+88, S+85]. The ﬁrst version
(which we will call AFSv1, but actually the original system was called
the ITC distributed ﬁle system [S+85]) had some of the basic design in
place, but didn’t scale as desired, which led to a re-design and the ﬁnal
protocol (which we will call AFSv2, or just AFS) [H+88]. We now discuss
the ﬁrst version.
1Though originally referred to as “Carnegie-Mellon University”, CMU later dropped
the hyphen, and thus was born the modern form, “Carnegie Mellon University.” As AFS
derived from work in the early 80’s, we refer to CMU in its original fully-hyphenated form. See
https://www.quora.com/When-did-Carnegie-Mellon-University-remove-the-
hyphen-in-the-university-name for more details, if you are into really boring minutiae.
1
