2
THE ANDREW FILE SYSTEM (AFS)
TestAuth
Test whether a file has changed
(used to validate cached entries)
GetFileStat
Get the stat info for a file
Fetch
Fetch the contents of file
Store
Store this file on the server
SetFileStat
Set the stat info for a file
ListDir
List the contents of a directory
Figure 50.1: AFSv1 Protocol Highlights
One of the basic tenets of all versions of AFS is whole-ﬁle caching on
the local disk of the client machine that is accessing a ﬁle. When you
open() a ﬁle, the entire ﬁle (if it exists) is fetched from the server and
stored in a ﬁle on your local disk. Subsequent application read() and
write() operations are redirected to the local ﬁle system where the ﬁle is
stored; thus, these operations require no network communication and are
fast. Finally, upon close(), the ﬁle (if it has been modiﬁed) is ﬂushed
back to the server. Note the obvious contrasts with NFS, which caches
blocks (not whole ﬁles, although NFS could of course cache every block of
an entire ﬁle) and does so in client memory (not local disk).
Let’s get into the details a bit more. When a client application ﬁrst calls
open(), the AFS client-side code (which the AFS designers call Venus)
would send a Fetch protocol message to the server. The Fetch protocol
message would pass the entire pathname of the desired ﬁle (for exam-
ple, /home/remzi/notes.txt) to the ﬁle server (the group of which
they called Vice), which would then traverse the pathname, ﬁnd the de-
sired ﬁle, and ship the entire ﬁle back to the client. The client-side code
would then cache the ﬁle on the local disk of the client (by writing it to
local disk). As we said above, subsequent read() and write() system
calls are strictly local in AFS (no communication with the server occurs);
they are just redirected to the local copy of the ﬁle. Because the read()
and write() calls act just like calls to a local ﬁle system, once a block
is accessed, it also may be cached in client memory. Thus, AFS also uses
client memory to cache copies of blocks that it has in its local disk. Fi-
nally, when ﬁnished, the AFS client checks if the ﬁle has been modiﬁed
(i.e., that it has been opened for writing); if so, it ﬂushes the new version
back to the server with a Store protocol message, sending the entire ﬁle
and pathname to the server for permanent storage.
The next time the ﬁle is accessed, AFSv1 does so much more efﬁ-
ciently. Speciﬁcally, the client-side code ﬁrst contacts the server (using
the TestAuth protocol message) in order to determine whether the ﬁle
has changed. If not, the client would use the locally-cached copy, thus
improving performance by avoiding a network transfer. The ﬁgure above
shows some of the protocol messages in AFSv1. Note that this early ver-
sion of the protocol only cached ﬁle contents; directories, for example,
were only kept at the server.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
