THE ANDREW FILE SYSTEM (AFS)
11
ASIDE: THE IMPORTANCE OF WORKLOAD
One challenge of evaluating any system is the choice of workload. Be-
cause computer systems are used in so many different ways, there are a
large variety of workloads to choose from. How should the storage sys-
tem designer decide which workloads are important, in order to make
reasonable design decisions?
The designers of AFS, given their experience in measuring how ﬁle sys-
tems were used, made certain workload assumptions; in particular, they
assumed that most ﬁles were not frequently shared, and accessed sequen-
tially in their entirety. Given those assumptions, the AFS design makes
perfect sense.
However, these assumptions are not always correct. For example, imag-
ine an application that appends information, periodically, to a log. These
little log writes, which add small amounts of data to an existing large ﬁle,
are quite problematic for AFS. Many other difﬁcult workloads exist as
well, e.g., random updates in a transaction database.
One place to get some information about what types of workloads are
common are through various research studies that have been performed.
See any of these studies for good examples of workload analysis [B+91,
H+11, R+00, V99], including the AFS retrospective [H+88].
formance impact. NFS, as a block-based protocol, performs I/O that is
proportional to the size of the read or write.
Overall, we see that NFS and AFS make different assumptions and not
surprisingly realize different performance outcomes as a result. Whether
these differences matter is, as always, a question of workload.
50.8 AFS: Other Improvements
Like we saw with the introduction of Berkeley FFS (which added sym-
bolic links and a number of other features), the designers of AFS took the
opportunity when building their system to add a number of features that
made the system easier to use and manage. For example, AFS provides a
true global namespace to clients, thus ensuring that all ﬁles were named
the same way on all client machines. NFS, in contrast, allows each client
to mount NFS servers in any way that they please, and thus only by con-
vention (and great administrative effort) would ﬁles be named similarly
across clients.
AFS also takes security seriously, and incorporates mechanisms to au-
thenticate users and ensure that a set of ﬁles could be kept private if a
user so desired. NFS, in contrast, had quite primitive support for security
for many years.
AFS also includes facilities for ﬂexible user-managed access control.
Thus, when using AFS, a user has a great deal of control over who exactly
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
