THE ANDREW FILE SYSTEM (AFS)
3
TIP: MEASURE THEN BUILD (PATTERSON’S LAW)
One of our advisors, David Patterson (of RISC and RAID fame), used to
always encourage us to measure a system and demonstrate a problem
before building a new system to ﬁx said problem. By using experimen-
tal evidence, rather than gut instinct, you can turn the process of system
building into a more scientiﬁc endeavor. Doing so also has the fringe ben-
eﬁt of making you think about how exactly to measure the system before
your improved version is developed. When you do ﬁnally get around to
building the new system, two things are better as a result: ﬁrst, you have
evidence that shows you are solving a real problem; second, you now
have a way to measure your new system in place, to show that it actually
improves upon the state of the art. And thus we call this Patterson’s Law.
50.2 Problems with Version 1
A few key problems with this ﬁrst version of AFS motivated the de-
signers to rethink their ﬁle system. To study the problems in detail, the
designers of AFS spent a great deal of time measuring their existing pro-
totype to ﬁnd what was wrong. Such experimentation is a good thing,
because measurement is the key to understanding how systems work
and how to improve them; obtaining concrete, good data is thus a neces-
sary part of systems construction. In their study, the authors found two
main problems with AFSv1:
• Path-traversal costs are too high: When performing a Fetch or Store
protocol request, the client passes the entire pathname (e.g., /home/
remzi/notes.txt) to the server. The server, in order to access the
ﬁle, must perform a full pathname traversal, ﬁrst looking in the root
directory to ﬁnd home, then in home to ﬁnd remzi, and so forth,
all the way down the path until ﬁnally the desired ﬁle is located.
With many clients accessing the server at once, the designers of AFS
found that the server was spending much of its CPU time simply
walking down directory paths.
• The client issues too many TestAuth protocol messages: Much
like NFS and its overabundance of GETATTR protocol messages,
AFSv1 generated a large amount of trafﬁc to check whether a lo-
cal ﬁle (or its stat information) was valid with the TestAuth proto-
col message. Thus, servers spent much of their time telling clients
whether it was OK to use their cached copies of a ﬁle. Most of the
time, the answer was that the ﬁle had not changed.
There were actually two other problems with AFSv1: load was not
balanced across servers, and the server used a single distinct process per
client thus inducing context switching and other overheads. The load
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
