4
THE ANDREW FILE SYSTEM (AFS)
imbalance problem was solved by introducing volumes, which an ad-
ministrator could move across servers to balance load; the context-switch
problem was solved in AFSv2 by building the server with threads instead
of processes. However, for the sake of space, we focus here on the main
two protocol problems above that limited the scale of the system.
50.3 Improving the Protocol
The two problems above limited the scalability of AFS; the server CPU
became the bottleneck of the system, and each server could only ser-
vice 20 clients without becoming overloaded. Servers were receiving too
many TestAuth messages, and when they received Fetch or Store mes-
sages, were spending too much time traversing the directory hierarchy.
Thus, the AFS designers were faced with a problem:
THE CRUX: HOW TO DESIGN A SCALABLE FILE PROTOCOL
How should one redesign the protocol to minimize the number of
server interactions, i.e., how could they reduce the number of TestAuth
messages? Further, how could they design the protocol to make these
server interactions efﬁcient? By attacking both of these issues, a new pro-
tocol would result in a much more scalable version AFS.
50.4 AFS Version 2
AFSv2 introduced the notion of a callback to reduce the number of
client/server interactions. A callback is simply a promise from the server
to the client that the server will inform the client when a ﬁle that the
client is caching has been modiﬁed. By adding this state to the system,
the client no longer needs to contact the server to ﬁnd out if a cached ﬁle
is still valid. Rather, it assumes that the ﬁle is valid until the server tells it
otherwise; notice the analogy to polling versus interrupts.
AFSv2 also introduced the notion of a ﬁle identiﬁer (FID) (similar to
the NFS ﬁle handle) instead of pathnames to specify which ﬁle a client
was interested in. An FID in AFS consists of a volume identiﬁer, a ﬁle
identiﬁer, and a “uniquiﬁer” (to enable reuse of the volume and ﬁle IDs
when a ﬁle is deleted). Thus, instead of sending whole pathnames to
the server and letting the server walk the pathname to ﬁnd the desired
ﬁle, the client would walk the pathname, one piece at a time, caching the
results and thus hopefully reducing the load on the server.
For example, if a client accessed the ﬁle /home/remzi/notes.txt,
and home was the AFS directory mounted onto / (i.e., / was the local root
directory, but home and its children were in AFS), the client would ﬁrst
Fetch the directory contents of home, put them in the local-disk cache,
and set up a callback on home. Then, the client would Fetch the directory
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
