6
THE ANDREW FILE SYSTEM (AFS)
ASIDE: CACHE CONSISTENCY IS NOT A PANACEA
When discussing distributed ﬁle systems, much is made of the cache con-
sistency the ﬁle systems provide. However, this baseline consistency does
not solve all problems with regards to ﬁle access from multiple clients.
For example, if you are building a code repository, with multiple clients
performing check-ins and check-outs of code, you can’t simply rely on
the underlying ﬁle system to do all of the work for you; rather, you have
to use explicit ﬁle-level locking in order to ensure that the “right” thing
happens when such concurrent accesses take place. Indeed, any applica-
tion that truly cares about concurrent updates will add extra machinery
to handle conﬂicts. The baseline consistency described in this chapter and
the previous one are useful primarily for casual usage, i.e., when a user
logs into a different client, they expect some reasonable version of their
ﬁles to show up there. Expecting more from these protocols is setting
yourself up for failure, disappointment, and tear-ﬁlled frustration.
thus ensuring that the server would notify the client of a change in its
cached state. The beneﬁt is obvious: although the ﬁrst access to /home/
remzi/notes.txt generates many client-server messages (as described
above), it also establishes callbacks for all the directories as well as the
ﬁle notes.txt, and thus subsequent accesses are entirely local and require
no server interaction at all. Thus, in the common case where a ﬁle is
cached at the client, AFS behaves nearly identically to a local disk-based
ﬁle system. If one accesses a ﬁle more than once, the second access should
be just as fast as accessing a ﬁle locally.
50.5 Cache Consistency
When we discussed NFS, there were two aspects of cache consistency
we considered: update visibility and cache staleness. With update visi-
bility, the question is: when will the server be updated with a new version
of a ﬁle? With cache staleness, the question is: once the server has a new
version, how long before clients see the new version instead of an older
cached copy?
Because of callbacks and whole-ﬁle caching, the cache consistency pro-
vided by AFS is easy to describe and understand. There are two im-
portant cases to consider: consistency between processes on different ma-
chines, and consistency between processes on the same machine.
Between different machines, AFS makes updates visible at the server
and invalidates cached copies at the exact same time, which is when the
updated ﬁle is closed. A client opens a ﬁle, and then writes to it (perhaps
repeatedly). When it is ﬁnally closed, the new ﬁle is ﬂushed to the server
(and thus visible). At this point, the server then “breaks” callbacks for
any clients with cached copies; the break is accomplished by contacting
each client and informing it that the callback it has on the ﬁle is no longer
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
