8
THE ANDREW FILE SYSTEM (AFS)
ﬁle, i.e., the ﬁle that remains on the server for others to see. The result is
a ﬁle that was generated in its entirety either by one client or the other.
Note the difference from a block-based protocol like NFS: in NFS, writes
of individual blocks may be ﬂushed out to the server as each client is up-
dating the ﬁle, and thus the ﬁnal ﬁle on the server could end up as a mix
of updates from both clients. In many cases, such a mixed ﬁle output
would not make much sense, i.e., imagine a JPEG image getting modi-
ﬁed by two clients in pieces; the resulting mix of writes would not likely
constitute a valid JPEG.
A timeline showing a few of these different scenarios can be seen in
Figure 50.3. The columns show the behavior of two processes (P1 and P2)
on Client1 and its cache state, one process (P3) on Client2 and its cache
state, and the server (Server), all operating on a single ﬁle called, imag-
inatively, F. For the server, the ﬁgure simply shows the contents of the
ﬁle after the operation on the left has completed. Read through it and see
if you can understand why each read returns the results that it does. A
commentary ﬁeld on the right will help you if you get stuck.
50.6 Crash Recovery
From the description above, you might sense that crash recovery is
more involved than with NFS. You would be right. For example, imagine
there is a short period of time where a server (S) is not able to contact
a client (C1), for example, while the client C1 is rebooting. While C1
is not available, S may have tried to send it one or more callback recall
messages; for example, imagine C1 had ﬁle F cached on its local disk, and
then C2 (another client) updated F, thus causing S to send messages to all
clients caching the ﬁle to remove it from their local caches. Because C1
may miss those critical messages when it is rebooting, upon rejoining the
system, C1 should treat all of its cache contents as suspect. Thus, upon
the next access to ﬁle F, C1 should ﬁrst ask the server (with a TestAuth
protocol message) whether its cached copy of ﬁle F is still valid; if so, C1
can use it; if not, C1 should fetch the newer version from the server.
Server recovery after a crash is also more complicated. The problem
that arises is that callbacks are kept in memory; thus, when a server re-
boots, it has no idea which client machine has which ﬁles. Thus, upon
server restart, each client of the server must realize that the server has
crashed and treat all of their cache contents as suspect, and (as above)
reestablish the validity of a ﬁle before using it. Thus, a server crash is a
big event, as one must ensure that each client is aware of the crash in a
timely manner, or risk a client accessing a stale ﬁle. There are many ways
to implement such recovery; for example, by having the server send a
message (saying “don’t trust your cache contents!”) to each client when
it is up and running again, or by having clients check that the server is
alive periodically (with a heartbeat message, as it is called). As you can
see, there is a cost to building a more scalable and sensible caching model;
with NFS, clients hardly noticed a server crash.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
