10
THE ANDREW FILE SYSTEM (AFS)
mote server dominates, and is similar on both systems. You might think
AFS would be slower in this case, as it has to write the ﬁle to local disk;
however, those writes are buffered by the local (client-side) ﬁle system
cache and thus said costs are likely hidden. Similarly, you might think
that AFS reads from the local cached copy would be slower, again be-
cause AFS stores the cached copy on disk. However, AFS again beneﬁts
here from local ﬁle system caching; reads on AFS would likely hit in the
client-side memory cache, and performance would be similar to NFS.
Second, an interesting difference arises during a large-ﬁle sequential
re-read (Workload 6). Because AFS has a large local disk cache, it will
access the ﬁle from there when the ﬁle is accessed again. NFS, in contrast,
only can cache blocks in client memory; as a result, if a large ﬁle (i.e., a ﬁle
bigger than local memory) is re-read, the NFS client will have to re-fetch
the entire ﬁle from the remote server. Thus, AFS is faster than NFS in this
case by a factor of
Lnet
Ldisk , assuming that remote access is indeed slower
than local disk. We also note that NFS in this case increases server load,
which has an impact on scale as well.
Third, we note that sequential writes (of new ﬁles) should perform
similarly on both systems (Workloads 8, 9). AFS, in this case, will write
the ﬁle to the local cached copy; when the ﬁle is closed, the AFS client
will force the writes to the server, as per the protocol. NFS will buffer
writes in client memory, perhaps forcing some blocks to the server due
to client-side memory pressure, but deﬁnitely writing them to the server
when the ﬁle is closed, to preserve NFS ﬂush-on-close consistency. You
might think AFS would be slower here, because it writes all data to local
disk. However, realize that it is writing to a local ﬁle system; those writes
are ﬁrst committed to the page cache, and only later (in the background)
to disk, and thus AFS reaps the beneﬁts of the client-side OS memory
caching infrastructure to improve performance.
Fourth, we note that AFS performs worse on a sequential ﬁle over-
write (Workload 10). Thus far, we have assumed that the workloads that
write are also creating a new ﬁle; in this case, the ﬁle exists, and is then
over-written. Overwrite can be a particularly bad case for AFS, because
the client ﬁrst fetches the old ﬁle in its entirety, only to subsequently over-
write it. NFS, in contrast, will simply overwrite blocks and thus avoid the
initial (useless) read2.
Finally, workloads that access a small subset of data within large ﬁles
perform much better on NFS than AFS (Workloads 7, 11). In these cases,
the AFS protocol fetches the entire ﬁle when the ﬁle is opened; unfortu-
nately, only a small read or write is performed. Even worse, if the ﬁle is
modiﬁed, the entire ﬁle is written back to the server, doubling the per-
2We assume here that NFS writes are block-sized and block-aligned; if they were not, the
NFS client would also have to read the block ﬁrst. We also assume the ﬁle was not opened
with the O TRUNC ﬂag; if it had been, the initial open in AFS would not fetch the soon to be
truncated ﬁle’s contents.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
