42
Crash Consistency: FSCK and Journaling
As we’ve seen thus far, the ﬁle system manages a set of data structures to
implement the expected abstractions: ﬁles, directories, and all of the other
metadata needed to support the basic abstraction that we expect from a
ﬁle system. Unlike most data structures (for example, those found in
memory of a running program), ﬁle system data structures must persist,
i.e., they must survive over the long haul, stored on devices that retain
data despite power loss (such as hard disks or ﬂash-based SSDs).
One major challenge faced by a ﬁle system is how to update persis-
tent data structures despite the presence of a power loss or system crash.
Speciﬁcally, what happens if, right in the middle of updating on-disk
structures, someone trips over the power cord and the machine loses
power? Or the operating system encounters a bug and crashes? Because
of power losses and crashes, updating a persistent data structure can be
quite tricky, and leads to a new and interesting problem in ﬁle system
implementation, known as the crash-consistency problem.
This problem is quite simple to understand. Imagine you have to up-
date two on-disk structures, A and B, in order to complete a particular
operation. Because the disk only services a single request at a time, one
of these requests will reach the disk ﬁrst (either A or B). If the system
crashes or loses power after one write completes, the on-disk structure
will be left in an inconsistent state. And thus, we have a problem that all
ﬁle systems need to solve:
THE CRUX: HOW TO UPDATE THE DISK DESPITE CRASHES
The system may crash or lose power between any two writes, and
thus the on-disk state may only partially get updated. After the crash,
the system boots and wishes to mount the ﬁle system again (in order to
access ﬁles and such). Given that crashes can occur at arbitrary points
in time, how do we ensure the ﬁle system keeps the on-disk image in a
reasonable state?
1
