CRASH CONSISTENCY: FSCK AND JOURNALING
11
write will either happen or not (and never be half-written); thus, to make
sure the write of TxE is atomic, one should make it a single 512-byte block.
Thus, our current protocol to update the ﬁle system, with each of its three
phases labeled:
1. Journal write: Write the contents of the transaction (including TxB,
metadata, and data) to the log; wait for these writes to complete.
2. Journal commit: Write the transaction commit block (containing
TxE) to the log; wait for write to complete; transaction is said to be
committed.
3. Checkpoint: Write the contents of the update (metadata and data)
to their ﬁnal on-disk locations.
Recovery
Let’s now understand how a ﬁle system can use the contents of the jour-
nal to recover from a crash. A crash may happen at any time during this
sequence of updates. If the crash happens before the transaction is writ-
ten safely to the log (i.e., before Step 2 above completes), then our job
is easy: the pending update is simply skipped. If the crash happens af-
ter the transaction has committed to the log, but before the checkpoint is
complete, the ﬁle system can recover the update as follows. When the
system boots, the ﬁle system recovery process will scan the log and look
for transactions that have committed to the disk; these transactions are
thus replayed (in order), with the ﬁle system again attempting to write
out the blocks in the transaction to their ﬁnal on-disk locations. This form
of logging is one of the simplest forms there is, and is called redo logging.
By recovering the committed transactions in the journal, the ﬁle system
ensures that the on-disk structures are consistent, and thus can proceed
by mounting the ﬁle system and readying itself for new requests.
Note that it is ﬁne for a crash to happen at any point during check-
pointing, even after some of the updates to the ﬁnal locations of the blocks
have completed. In the worst case, some of these updates are simply per-
formed again during recovery. Because recovery is a rare operation (only
taking place after an unexpected system crash), a few redundant writes
are nothing to worry about3.
Batching Log Updates
You might have noticed that the basic protocol could add a lot of extra
disk trafﬁc. For example, imagine we create two ﬁles in a row, called
file1 and file2, in the same directory.
To create one ﬁle, one has
to update a number of on-disk structures, minimally including: the in-
ode bitmap (to allocate a new inode), the newly-created inode of the ﬁle,
3Unless you worry about everything, in which case we can’t help you. Stop worrying so
much, it is unhealthy! But now you’re probably worried about over-worrying.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
