12
CRASH CONSISTENCY: FSCK AND JOURNALING
the data block of the parent directory containing the new directory en-
try, and the parent directory inode (which now has a new modiﬁcation
time). With journaling, we logically commit all of this information to
the journal for each of our two ﬁle creations; because the ﬁles are in the
same directory, and assuming they even have inodes within the same in-
ode block, this means that if we’re not careful, we’ll end up writing these
same blocks over and over.
To remedy this problem, some ﬁle systems do not commit each update
to disk one at a time (e.g., Linux ext3); rather, one can buffer all updates
into a global transaction. In our example above, when the two ﬁles are
created, the ﬁle system just marks the in-memory inode bitmap, inodes
of the ﬁles, directory data, and directory inode as dirty, and adds them to
the list of blocks that form the current transaction. When it is ﬁnally time
to write these blocks to disk (say, after a timeout of 5 seconds), this single
global transaction is committed containing all of the updates described
above. Thus, by buffering updates, a ﬁle system can avoid excessive write
trafﬁc to disk in many cases.
Making The Log Finite
We thus have arrived at a basic protocol for updating ﬁle-system on-disk
structures. The ﬁle system buffers updates in memory for some time;
when it is ﬁnally time to write to disk, the ﬁle system ﬁrst carefully writes
out the details of the transaction to the journal (a.k.a. write-ahead log);
after the transaction is complete, the ﬁle system checkpoints those blocks
to their ﬁnal locations on disk.
However, the log is of a ﬁnite size. If we keep adding transactions to
it (as in this ﬁgure), it will soon ﬁll. What do you think happens then?
Journal
Tx1
Tx2
Tx3
Tx4
Tx5
...
Two problems arise when the log becomes full. The ﬁrst is simpler,
but less critical: the larger the log, the longer recovery will take, as the
recovery process must replay all the transactions within the log (in order)
to recover. The second is more of an issue: when the log is full (or nearly
full), no further transactions can be committed to the disk, thus making
the ﬁle system “less than useful” (i.e., useless).
To address these problems, journaling ﬁle systems treat the log as a
circular data structure, re-using it over and over; this is why the journal
is sometimes referred to as a circular log. To do so, the ﬁle system must
take action some time after a checkpoint. Speciﬁcally, once a transaction
has been checkpointed, the ﬁle system should free the space it was occu-
pying within the journal, allowing the log space to be reused. There are
many ways to achieve this end; for example, you could simply mark the
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
