CRASH CONSISTENCY: FSCK AND JOURNALING
13
oldest and newest non-checkpointed transactions in the log in a journal
superblock; all other space is free. Here is a graphical depiction:
Journal
Journal
Super
Tx1
Tx2
Tx3
Tx4
Tx5
...
In the journal superblock (not to be confused with the main ﬁle system
superblock), the journaling system records enough information to know
which transactions have not yet been checkpointed, and thus reduces re-
covery time as well as enables re-use of the log in a circular fashion. And
thus we add another step to our basic protocol:
1. Journal write: Write the contents of the transaction (containing TxB
and the contents of the update) to the log; wait for these writes to
complete.
2. Journal commit: Write the transaction commit block (containing
TxE) to the log; wait for the write to complete; the transaction is
now committed.
3. Checkpoint: Write the contents of the update to their ﬁnal locations
within the ﬁle system.
4. Free: Some time later, mark the transaction free in the journal by
updating the journal superblock.
Thus we have our ﬁnal data journaling protocol. But there is still a
problem: we are writing each data block to the disk twice, which is a
heavy cost to pay, especially for something as rare as a system crash. Can
you ﬁgure out a way to retain consistency without writing data twice?
Metadata Journaling
Although recovery is now fast (scanning the journal and replaying a few
transactions as opposed to scanning the entire disk), normal operation
of the ﬁle system is slower than we might desire. In particular, for each
write to disk, we are now also writing to the journal ﬁrst, thus doubling
write trafﬁc; this doubling is especially painful during sequential write
workloads, which now will proceed at half the peak write bandwidth of
the drive. Further, between writes to the journal and writes to the main
ﬁle system, there is a costly seek, which adds noticeable overhead for
some workloads.
Because of the high cost of writing every data block to disk twice, peo-
ple have tried a few different things in order to speed up performance.
For example, the mode of journaling we described above is often called
data journaling (as in Linux ext3), as it journals all user data (in addition
to the metadata of the ﬁle system). A simpler (and more common) form
of journaling is sometimes called ordered journaling (or just metadata
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
