16
CRASH CONSISTENCY: FSCK AND JOURNALING
Journal
File System
TxB
Contents
TxE
Metadata
Data
(metadata)
(data)
issue
issue
issue
complete
complete
complete
issue
complete
issue
issue
complete
complete
Figure 42.1: Data Journaling Timeline
Now assume a crash occurs and all of this information is still in the
log. During replay, the recovery process simply replays everything in the
log, including the write of directory data in block 1000; the replay thus
overwrites the user data of current ﬁle bar with old directory contents!
Clearly this is not a correct recovery action, and certainly it will be a sur-
prise to the user when reading the ﬁle bar.
There are a number of solutions to this problem. One could, for ex-
ample, never reuse blocks until the delete of said blocks is checkpointed
out of the journal. What Linux ext3 does instead is to add a new type
of record to the journal, known as a revoke record. In the case above,
deleting the directory would cause a revoke record to be written to the
journal. When replaying the journal, the system ﬁrst scans for such re-
voke records; any such revoked data is never replayed, thus avoiding the
problem mentioned above.
Wrapping Up Journaling: A Timeline
Before ending our discussion of journaling, we summarize the protocols
we have discussed with timelines depicting each of them. Figure 42.1
shows the protocol when journaling data and metadata, whereas Figure
42.2 shows the protocol when journaling only metadata.
In each ﬁgure, time increases in the downward direction, and each row
in the ﬁgure shows the logical time that a write can be issued or might
complete. For example, in the data journaling protocol (Figure 42.1), the
writes of the transaction begin block (TxB) and the contents of the trans-
action can logically be issued at the same time, and thus can be completed
in any order; however, the write to the transaction end block (TxE) must
not be issued until said previous writes complete. Similarly, the check-
pointing writes to data and metadata blocks cannot begin until the trans-
action end block has committed. Horizontal dashed lines show where
write-ordering requirements must be obeyed.
A similar timeline is shown for the metadata journaling protocol. Note
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
