CRASH CONSISTENCY: FSCK AND JOURNALING
17
Journal
File System
TxB
Contents
TxE
Metadata
Data
(metadata)
issue
issue
issue
complete
complete
complete
issue
complete
issue
complete
Figure 42.2: Metadata Journaling Timeline
that the data write can logically be issued at the same time as the writes
to the transaction begin and the contents of the journal; however, it must
be issued and complete before the transaction end has been issued.
Finally, note that the time of completion marked for each write in the
timelines is arbitrary. In a real system, completion time is determined by
the I/O subsystem, which may reorder writes to improve performance.
The only guarantees about ordering that we have are those that must
be enforced for protocol correctness (and are shown via the horizontal
dashed lines in the ﬁgures).
42.4 Solution #3: Other Approaches
We’ve thus far described two options in keeping ﬁle system metadata
consistent: a lazy approach based on fsck, and a more active approach
known as journaling. However, these are not the only two approaches.
One such approach, known as Soft Updates [GP94], was introduced by
Ganger and Patt. This approach carefully orders all writes to the ﬁle sys-
tem to ensure that the on-disk structures are never left in an inconsis-
tent state. For example, by writing a pointed-to data block to disk before
the inode that points to it, we can ensure that the inode never points to
garbage; similar rules can be derived for all the structures of the ﬁle sys-
tem. Implementing Soft Updates can be a challenge, however; whereas
the journaling layer described above can be implemented with relatively
little knowledge of the exact ﬁle system structures, Soft Updates requires
intricate knowledge of each ﬁle system data structure and thus adds a fair
amount of complexity to the system.
Another approach is known as copy-on-write (yes, COW), and is used
in a number of popular ﬁle systems, including Sun’s ZFS [B07]. This tech-
nique never overwrites ﬁles or directories in place; rather, it places new
updates to previously unused locations on disk. After a number of up-
dates are completed, COW ﬁle systems ﬂip the root structure of the ﬁle
system to include pointers to the newly updated structures. Doing so
makes keeping the ﬁle system consistent straightforward. We’ll be learn-
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
