18
CRASH CONSISTENCY: FSCK AND JOURNALING
ing more about this technique when we discuss the log-structured ﬁle
system (LFS) in a future chapter; LFS is an early example of a COW.
Another approach is one we just developed here at Wisconsin. In this
technique, entitled backpointer-based consistency (or BBC), no ordering
is enforced between writes. To achieve consistency, an additional back
pointer is added to every block in the system; for example, each data
block has a reference to the inode to which it belongs. When accessing
a ﬁle, the ﬁle system can determine if the ﬁle is consistent by checking if
the forward pointer (e.g., the address in the inode or direct block) points
to a block that refers back to it. If so, everything must have safely reached
disk and thus the ﬁle is consistent; if not, the ﬁle is inconsistent, and an
error is returned. By adding back pointers to the ﬁle system, a new form
of lazy crash consistency can be attained [C+12].
Finally, we also have explored techniques to reduce the number of
times a journal protocol has to wait for disk writes to complete. Entitled
optimistic crash consistency [C+13], this new approach issues as many
writes to disk as possible by using a generalized form of the transaction
checksum [P+05], and includes a few other techniques to detect incon-
sistencies should they arise. For some workloads, these optimistic tech-
niques can improve performance by an order of magnitude. However, to
truly function well, a slightly different disk interface is required [C+13].
42.5 Summary
We have introduced the problem of crash consistency, and discussed
various approaches to attacking this problem.
The older approach of
building a ﬁle system checker works but is likely too slow to recover on
modern systems. Thus, many ﬁle systems now use journaling. Journaling
reduces recovery time from O(size-of-the-disk-volume) to O(size-of-the-
log), thus speeding recovery substantially after a crash and restart. For
this reason, many modern ﬁle systems use journaling. We have also seen
that journaling can come in many different forms; the most commonly
used is ordered metadata journaling, which reduces the amount of trafﬁc
to the journal while still preserving reasonable consistency guarantees for
both ﬁle system metadata and user data. In the end, strong guarantees
on user data are probably one of the most important things to provide;
oddly enough, as recent research has shown, this area remains a work in
progress [P+14].
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
