CRASH CONSISTENCY: FSCK AND JOURNALING
21
Homework (Simulation)
This section introduces fsck.py, a simple simulator you can use to
better understand how ﬁle system corruptions can be detected (and po-
tentially repaired). Please see the associated README for details on how
to run the simulator.
Questions
1. First, run fsck.py -D; this ﬂag turns off any corruption, and thus
you can use it to generate a random ﬁle system, and see if you can
determine which ﬁles and directories are in there. So, go ahead and
do that! Use the -p ﬂag to see if you were right. Try this for a few
different randomly-generated ﬁle systems by setting the seed (-s)
to different values, like 1, 2, and 3.
2. Now, let’s introduce a corruption. Run fsck.py -S 1 to start.
Can you see what inconsistency is introduced? How would you ﬁx
it in a real ﬁle system repair tool? Use -c to check if you were right.
3. Change the seed to -S 3 or -S 19; which inconsistency do you
see? Use -c to check your answer. What is different in these two
cases?
4. Change the seed to -S 5; which inconsistency do you see? How
hard would it be to ﬁx this problem in an automatic way? Use -c to
check your answer. Then, introduce a similar inconsistency with -S
38; is this harder/possible to detect? Finally, use -S 642; is this
inconsistency detectable? If so, how would you ﬁx the ﬁle system?
5. Change the seed to -S 6 or -S 13; which inconsistency do you
see? Use -c to check your answer. What is the difference across
these two cases? What should the repair tool do when encountering
such a situation?
6. Change the seed to -S 9; which inconsistency do you see? Use -c
to check your answer. Which piece of information should a check-
and-repair tool trust in this case?
7. Change the seed to -S 15; which inconsistency do you see? Use
-c to check your answer. What can a repair tool do in this case? If
no repair is possible, how much data is lost?
8. Change the seed to -S 10; which inconsistency do you see? Use
-c to check your answer. Is there redundancy in the ﬁle system
structure here that can help a repair?
9. Change the seed to -S 16 and -S 20; which inconsistency do you
see? Use -c to check your answer. How should the repair tool ﬁx
the problem?
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
