4
CRASH CONSISTENCY: FSCK AND JOURNALING
• Just the data block (Db) is written to disk. In this case, the data is
on disk, but there is no inode that points to it and no bitmap that
even says the block is allocated. Thus, it is as if the write never
occurred. This case is not a problem at all, from the perspective of
ﬁle-system crash consistency1.
• Just the updated inode (I[v2]) is written to disk. In this case, the
inode points to the disk address (5) where Db was about to be writ-
ten, but Db has not yet been written there. Thus, if we trust that
pointer, we will read garbage data from the disk (the old contents
of disk address 5).
Further, we have a new problem, which we call a ﬁle-system in-
consistency. The on-disk bitmap is telling us that data block 5 has
not been allocated, but the inode is saying that it has. The disagree-
ment between the bitmap and the inode is an inconsistency in the
data structures of the ﬁle system; to use the ﬁle system, we must
somehow resolve this problem (more on that below).
• Just the updated bitmap (B[v2]) is written to disk. In this case, the
bitmap indicates that block 5 is allocated, but there is no inode that
points to it. Thus the ﬁle system is inconsistent again; if left unre-
solved, this write would result in a space leak, as block 5 would
never be used by the ﬁle system.
There are also three more crash scenarios in this attempt to write three
blocks to disk. In these cases, two writes succeed and the last one fails:
• The inode (I[v2]) and bitmap (B[v2]) are written to disk, but not
data (Db). In this case, the ﬁle system metadata is completely con-
sistent: the inode has a pointer to block 5, the bitmap indicates that
5 is in use, and thus everything looks OK from the perspective of
the ﬁle system’s metadata. But there is one problem: 5 has garbage
in it again.
• The inode (I[v2]) and the data block (Db) are written, but not the
bitmap (B[v2]). In this case, we have the inode pointing to the cor-
rect data on disk, but again have an inconsistency between the in-
ode and the old version of the bitmap (B1). Thus, we once again
need to resolve the problem before using the ﬁle system.
• The bitmap (B[v2]) and data block (Db) are written, but not the
inode (I[v2]). In this case, we again have an inconsistency between
the inode and the data bitmap. However, even though the block
was written and the bitmap indicates its usage, we have no idea
which ﬁle it belongs to, as no inode points to the ﬁle.
1However, it might be a problem for the user, who just lost some data!
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
