CRASH CONSISTENCY: FSCK AND JOURNALING
5
The Crash Consistency Problem
Hopefully, from these crash scenarios, you can see the many problems
that can occur to our on-disk ﬁle system image because of crashes: we can
have inconsistency in ﬁle system data structures; we can have space leaks;
we can return garbage data to a user; and so forth. What we’d like to do
ideally is move the ﬁle system from one consistent state (e.g., before the
ﬁle got appended to) to another atomically (e.g., after the inode, bitmap,
and new data block have been written to disk). Unfortunately, we can’t
do this easily because the disk only commits one write at a time, and
crashes or power loss may occur between these updates. We call this
general problem the crash-consistency problem (we could also call it the
consistent-update problem).
42.2 Solution #1: The File System Checker
Early ﬁle systems took a simple approach to crash consistency. Basi-
cally, they decided to let inconsistencies happen and then ﬁx them later
(when rebooting). A classic example of this lazy approach is found in a
tool that does this: fsck2. fsck is a UNIX tool for ﬁnding such incon-
sistencies and repairing them [MK96]; similar tools to check and repair
a disk partition exist on different systems. Note that such an approach
can’t ﬁx all problems; consider, for example, the case above where the ﬁle
system looks consistent but the inode points to garbage data. The only
real goal is to make sure the ﬁle system metadata is internally consistent.
The tool fsck operates in a number of phases, as summarized in
McKusick and Kowalski’s paper [MK96]. It is run before the ﬁle system
is mounted and made available (fsck assumes that no other ﬁle-system
activity is on-going while it runs); once ﬁnished, the on-disk ﬁle system
should be consistent and thus can be made accessible to users.
Here is a basic summary of what fsck does:
• Superblock: fsck ﬁrst checks if the superblock looks reasonable,
mostly doing sanity checks such as making sure the ﬁle system size
is greater than the number of blocks that have been allocated. Usu-
ally the goal of these sanity checks is to ﬁnd a suspect (corrupt)
superblock; in this case, the system (or administrator) may decide
to use an alternate copy of the superblock.
• Free blocks: Next, fsck scans the inodes, indirect blocks, double
indirect blocks, etc., to build an understanding of which blocks are
currently allocated within the ﬁle system. It uses this knowledge
to produce a correct version of the allocation bitmaps; thus, if there
is any inconsistency between bitmaps and inodes, it is resolved by
trusting the information within the inodes. The same type of check
is performed for all the inodes, making sure that all inodes that look
like they are in use are marked as such in the inode bitmaps.
2Pronounced either “eff-ess-see-kay”, “eff-ess-check”, or, if you don’t like the tool, “eff-
suck”. Yes, serious professional people use this term.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
