6
CRASH CONSISTENCY: FSCK AND JOURNALING
• Inode state: Each inode is checked for corruption or other prob-
lems. For example, fsck makes sure that each allocated inode has
a valid type ﬁeld (e.g., regular ﬁle, directory, symbolic link, etc.). If
there are problems with the inode ﬁelds that are not easily ﬁxed, the
inode is considered suspect and cleared by fsck; the inode bitmap
is correspondingly updated.
• Inode links: fsck also veriﬁes the link count of each allocated in-
ode. As you may recall, the link count indicates the number of dif-
ferent directories that contain a reference (i.e., a link) to this par-
ticular ﬁle. To verify the link count, fsck scans through the en-
tire directory tree, starting at the root directory, and builds its own
link counts for every ﬁle and directory in the ﬁle system. If there
is a mismatch between the newly-calculated count and that found
within an inode, corrective action must be taken, usually by ﬁxing
the count within the inode. If an allocated inode is discovered but
no directory refers to it, it is moved to the lost+found directory.
• Duplicates: fsck also checks for duplicate pointers, i.e., cases where
two different inodes refer to the same block. If one inode is obvi-
ously bad, it may be cleared. Alternately, the pointed-to block could
be copied, thus giving each inode its own copy as desired.
• Bad blocks: A check for bad block pointers is also performed while
scanning through the list of all pointers. A pointer is considered
“bad” if it obviously points to something outside its valid range,
e.g., it has an address that refers to a block greater than the parti-
tion size. In this case, fsck can’t do anything too intelligent; it just
removes (clears) the pointer from the inode or indirect block.
• Directory checks: fsck does not understand the contents of user
ﬁles; however, directories hold speciﬁcally formatted information
created by the ﬁle system itself. Thus, fsck performs additional
integrity checks on the contents of each directory, making sure that
“.” and “..” are the ﬁrst entries, that each inode referred to in a
directory entry is allocated, and ensuring that no directory is linked
to more than once in the entire hierarchy.
As you can see, building a working fsck requires intricate knowledge
of the ﬁle system; making sure such a piece of code works correctly in all
cases can be challenging [G+08]. However, fsck (and similar approaches)
have a bigger and perhaps more fundamental problem: they are too slow.
With a very large disk volume, scanning the entire disk to ﬁnd all the
allocated blocks and read the entire directory tree may take many minutes
or hours. Performance of fsck, as disks grew in capacity and RAIDs
grew in popularity, became prohibitive (despite recent advances [M+13]).
At a higher level, the basic premise of fsck seems just a tad irra-
tional. Consider our example above, where just three blocks are written
to the disk; it is incredibly expensive to scan the entire disk to ﬁx prob-
lems that occurred during an update of just three blocks. This situation is
akin to dropping your keys on the ﬂoor in your bedroom, and then com-
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
