CRASH CONSISTENCY: FSCK AND JOURNALING
7
mencing a search-the-entire-house-for-keys recovery algorithm, starting in
the basement and working your way through every room. It works but is
wasteful. Thus, as disks (and RAIDs) grew, researchers and practitioners
started to look for other solutions.
42.3 Solution #2: Journaling (or Write-Ahead Logging)
Probably the most popular solution to the consistent update problem
is to steal an idea from the world of database management systems. That
idea, known as write-ahead logging, was invented to address exactly this
type of problem. In ﬁle systems, we usually call write-ahead logging jour-
naling for historical reasons. The ﬁrst ﬁle system to do this was Cedar
[H87], though many modern ﬁle systems use the idea, including Linux
ext3 and ext4, reiserfs, IBM’s JFS, SGI’s XFS, and Windows NTFS.
The basic idea is as follows. When updating the disk, before over-
writing the structures in place, ﬁrst write down a little note (somewhere
else on the disk, in a well-known location) describing what you are about
to do. Writing this note is the “write ahead” part, and we write it to a
structure that we organize as a “log”; hence, write-ahead logging.
By writing the note to disk, you are guaranteeing that if a crash takes
places during the update (overwrite) of the structures you are updating,
you can go back and look at the note you made and try again; thus, you
will know exactly what to ﬁx (and how to ﬁx it) after a crash, instead
of having to scan the entire disk. By design, journaling thus adds a bit
of work during updates to greatly reduce the amount of work required
during recovery.
We’ll now describe how Linux ext3, a popular journaling ﬁle system,
incorporates journaling into the ﬁle system. Most of the on-disk struc-
tures are identical to Linux ext2, e.g., the disk is divided into block groups,
and each block group contains an inode bitmap, data bitmap, inodes, and
data blocks. The new key structure is the journal itself, which occupies
some small amount of space within the partition or on another device.
Thus, an ext2 ﬁle system (without journaling) looks like this:
Super
Group 0
Group 1
. . .
Group N
Assuming the journal is placed within the same ﬁle system image
(though sometimes it is placed on a separate device, or as a ﬁle within
the ﬁle system), an ext3 ﬁle system with a journal looks like this:
Super Journal
Group 0
Group 1
. . .
Group N
The real difference is just the presence of the journal, and of course,
how it is used.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
