CRASH CONSISTENCY: FSCK AND JOURNALING
9
ASIDE: FORCING WRITES TO DISK
To enforce ordering between two disk writes, modern ﬁle systems have
to take a few extra precautions. In olden times, forcing ordering between
two writes, A and B, was easy: just issue the write of A to the disk, wait
for the disk to interrupt the OS when the write is complete, and then issue
the write of B.
Things got slightly more complex due to the increased use of write caches
within disks. With write buffering enabled (sometimes called immediate
reporting), a disk will inform the OS the write is complete when it simply
has been placed in the disk’s memory cache, and has not yet reached
disk. If the OS then issues a subsequent write, it is not guaranteed to
reach the disk after previous writes; thus ordering between writes is not
preserved. One solution is to disable write buffering. However, more
modern systems take extra precautions and issue explicit write barriers;
such a barrier, when it completes, guarantees that all writes issued before
the barrier will reach disk before any writes issued after the barrier.
All of this machinery requires a great deal of trust in the correct oper-
ation of the disk. Unfortunately, recent research shows that some disk
manufacturers, in an effort to deliver “higher performing” disks, explic-
itly ignore write-barrier requests, thus making the disks seemingly run
faster but at the risk of incorrect operation [C+13, R+11]. As Kahan said,
the fast almost always beats out the slow, even if the fast is wrong.
all ﬁve block writes at once, as this would turn ﬁve writes into a single
sequential write and thus be faster. However, this is unsafe, for the fol-
lowing reason: given such a big write, the disk internally may perform
scheduling and complete small pieces of the big write in any order. Thus,
the disk internally may (1) write TxB, I[v2], B[v2], and TxE and only later
(2) write Db. Unfortunately, if the disk loses power between (1) and (2),
this is what ends up on disk:
Journal
TxB
id=1
I[v2]
B[v2]
??
TxE
id=1
Why is this a problem? Well, the transaction looks like a valid trans-
action (it has a begin and an end with matching sequence numbers). Fur-
ther, the ﬁle system can’t look at that fourth block and know it is wrong;
after all, it is arbitrary user data. Thus, if the system now reboots and
runs recovery, it will replay this transaction, and ignorantly copy the con-
tents of the garbage block ’??’ to the location where Db is supposed to
live. This is bad for arbitrary user data in a ﬁle; it is much worse if it hap-
pens to a critical piece of ﬁle system, such as the superblock, which could
render the ﬁle system unmountable.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
