10
CRASH CONSISTENCY: FSCK AND JOURNALING
ASIDE: OPTIMIZING LOG WRITES
You may have noticed a particular inefﬁciency of writing to the log.
Namely, the ﬁle system ﬁrst has to write out the transaction-begin block
and contents of the transaction; only after these writes complete can the
ﬁle system send the transaction-end block to disk. The performance im-
pact is clear, if you think about how a disk works: usually an extra rota-
tion is incurred (think about why).
One of our former graduate students, Vijayan Prabhakaran, had a simple
idea to ﬁx this problem [P+05]. When writing a transaction to the journal,
include a checksum of the contents of the journal in the begin and end
blocks. Doing so enables the ﬁle system to write the entire transaction at
once, without incurring a wait; if, during recovery, the ﬁle system sees
a mismatch in the computed checksum versus the stored checksum in
the transaction, it can conclude that a crash occurred during the write
of the transaction and thus discard the ﬁle-system update. Thus, with a
small tweak in the write protocol and recovery system, a ﬁle system can
achieve faster common-case performance; on top of that, the system is
slightly more reliable, as any reads from the journal are now protected by
a checksum.
This simple ﬁx was attractive enough to gain the notice of Linux ﬁle sys-
tem developers, who then incorporated it into the next generation Linux
ﬁle system, called (you guessed it!) Linux ext4. It now ships on mil-
lions of machines worldwide, including the Android handheld platform.
Thus, every time you write to disk on many Linux-based systems, a little
code developed at Wisconsin makes your system a little faster and more
reliable.
To avoid this problem, the ﬁle system issues the transactional write in
two steps. First, it writes all blocks except the TxE block to the journal,
issuing these writes all at once. When these writes complete, the journal
will look something like this (assuming our append workload again):
Journal
TxB
id=1
I[v2]
B[v2]
Db
When those writes complete, the ﬁle system issues the write of the TxE
block, thus leaving the journal in this ﬁnal, safe state:
Journal
TxB
id=1
I[v2]
B[v2]
Db
TxE
id=1
An important aspect of this process is the atomicity guarantee pro-
vided by the disk. It turns out that the disk guarantees that any 512-byte
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
