F
Laboratory: Tutorial
This is a very brief document to familiarize you with the basics of the C
programming environment on UNIX systems. It is not comprehensive or
particularly detailed, but should just give you enough to get you going.
A couple of general points of advice about programming: if you want
to become an expert programmer, you need to master more than just the
syntax of a language. Speciﬁcally, you should know your tools, know
your libraries, and know your documentation. The tools that are rel-
evant to C compilation are gcc, gdb, and maybe ld. There are tons of
library routines that are also available to you, but fortunately a lot of
functionality is included in libc, which is linked with all C programs by
default — all you need to do is include the right header ﬁles. Finally,
knowing how to ﬁnd the library routines you need (e.g., learning to ﬁnd
and read man pages) is a skill worth acquiring. We’ll talk about each of
these in more detail later on.
Like (almost) everything worth doing in life, becoming an expert in
these domains takes time. Spending the time up-front to learn more about
the tools and environment is deﬁnitely well worth the effort.
F.1 A Simple C Program
We’ll start with a simple C program, perhaps saved in the ﬁle “hw.c”.
Unlike Java, there is not necessarily a connection between the ﬁle name
and the contents of the ﬁle; thus, use your common sense in naming ﬁles
in a manner that is appropriate.
The ﬁrst line speciﬁes a ﬁle to include, in this case stdio.h, which
“prototypes” many of the commonly used input/output routines; the
one we are interested in is printf(). When you use the #include di-
rective, you are telling the C preprocessor (cpp) to ﬁnd a particular ﬁle
(e.g., stdio.h) and to insert it directly into your code at the spot of the
#include. By default, cpp will look in the directory /usr/include/
to try to ﬁnd the ﬁle.
The next part speciﬁes the signature of the main() routine, namely
that it returns an integer (int), and will be called with two arguments,
1
