LABORATORY: TUTORIAL
11
example, if you are looking for the kill() system call man page, and
if you just type man kill at the prompt, you will get the wrong man
page, because there is a command-line program called kill. Man pages
are divided into sections, and by default, man will return the man page
in the lowest section that it ﬁnds, which in this case is section 1. Note that
you can tell which man page you got by looking at the top of the page:
if you see kill(2), you know you are in the right man page in Section
2, where system calls live. Type man man to learn more about what is
stored in each of the different sections of the man pages. Also note that
man -a kill can be used to cycle through all of the different man pages
named “kill”.
Man pages are useful for ﬁnding out a number of things. In particular,
you will often want to look up what arguments to pass to a library call,
or what header ﬁles need to be included to use a library call. All of this
should be available in the man page. For example, if you look up the
open() system call, you will see:
SYNOPSIS
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/stat.h>
#include <fcntl.h>
int open(const char *path, int oflag, /* mode_t mode */...);
That tells you to include the headers sys/types.h, sys/stat.h,
and fcntl.h in order to use the open call. It also tells you about the
parameters to pass to open, namely a string called path, and integer ﬂag
oflag, and an optional argument to specify the mode of the ﬁle. If there
were any libraries you needed to link with to use the call, it would tell
you that here too.
Man pages require some effort to use effectively. They are often di-
vided into a number of standard sections. The main body will describe
how you can pass different parameters in order to have the function be-
have differently.
One particularly useful section is called the RETURN VALUES part of
the man page, and it tells you what the function will return under success
or failure. From the open() man page again:
RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the open() function opens the
file and return a non-negative integer representing the
lowest numbered unused file descriptor. Otherwise, -1 is
returned, errno is set to indicate the error, and no files
are created or modified.
Thus, by checking what open returns, you can see if the open suc-
ceeded or not. If it didn’t, open (and many standard library routines) will
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
