12
LABORATORY: TUTORIAL
set a global variable called errno to a value to tell you about the error.
See the ERRORS section of the man page for more details.
Another thing you might want to do is to look for the deﬁnition of a
structure that is not speciﬁed in the man page itself. For example, the
man page for gettimeofday() has the following synopsis:
SYNOPSIS
#include <sys/time.h>
int gettimeofday(struct timeval *restrict tp,
void *restrict tzp);
From this page, you can see that the time is put into a structure of
type timeval, but the man page may not tell you what ﬁelds that struct
has! (in this case, it does, but you may not always be so lucky) Thus, you
may have to hunt for it. All include ﬁles are found under the directory
/usr/include, and thus you can use a tool like grep to look for it. For
example, you might type:
prompt> grep ’struct timeval’ /usr/include/sys/*.h
This lets you look for the deﬁnition of the structure in all ﬁles that
end with .h in /usr/include/sys. Unfortunately, this may not always
work, as that include ﬁle may include others which are found elsewhere.
A better way to do this is to use a tool at your disposal, the com-
piler. Write a program that includes the header time.h, let’s say called
main.c. Then, instead of compiling it, use the compiler to invoke the
preprocessor. The preprocessor processes all the directives in your ﬁle,
such as #define commands and #include commands. To do this, type
gcc -E main.c. The result of this is a C ﬁle that has all of the needed
structures and prototypes in it, including the deﬁnition of the timeval
struct.
Probably an even better way to ﬁnd these things out: google. You
should always google things you don’t know about — it’s amazing how
much you can learn simply by looking it up!
Info Pages
Also quite useful in the hunt for documentation are the info pages, which
provide much more detailed documentation on many GNU tools. You
can access the info pages by running the program info, or via emacs,
the preferred editor of hackers, by executing Meta-x info. A program
like gcc has hundreds of ﬂags, and some of them are surprisingly useful
to know about. gmake has many more features that will improve your
build environment. Finally, gdb is quite a sophisticated debugger. Read
the man and info pages, try out features that you hadn’t tried before, and
become a power user of your programming tools.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
