LABORATORY: TUTORIAL
5
the /foo/bar directory. One common directory to specify in this manner
is “.” (called “dot”), which is UNIX shorthand for the current directory.
Note that the -I ﬂag should go on a compile line, and the -L ﬂag on the
link line.
F.5 Separate Compilation
Once a program starts to get large enough, you may want to split
it into separate ﬁles, compiling each separately, and then link them to-
gether. For example, say you have two ﬁles, hw.c and helper.c, and
you wish to compile them individually, and then link them together.
# we are using -Wall for warnings, -O for optimization
prompt> gcc -Wall -O -c hw.c
prompt> gcc -Wall -O -c helper.c
prompt> gcc -o hw hw.o helper.o -lm
The -c ﬂag tells the compiler just to produce an object ﬁle — in this
case, ﬁles called hw.o and helper.o. These ﬁles are not executables,
but just machine-level representations of the code within each source
ﬁle. To combine the object ﬁles into an executable, you have to “link”
them together; this is accomplished with the third line gcc -o hw hw.o
helper.o). In this case, gcc sees that the input ﬁles speciﬁed are not
source ﬁles (.c), but instead are object ﬁles (.o), and therefore skips right
to the last step and invoked the link-editor ld to link them together into a
single executable. Because of its function, this line is often called the “link
line”, and would be where you specify link-speciﬁc commands such as
-lm. Analogously, ﬂags such as -Wall and -O are only needed in the
compile phase, and therefore need not be included on the link line but
rather only on compile lines.
Of course, you could just specify all the C source ﬁles on a single line
to gcc (gcc -Wall -O -o hw hw.c helper.c), but this requires the
system to recompile every source-code ﬁle, which can be a time-consuming
process. By compiling each individually, you can save time by only re-
compiling those ﬁles that have changed during your editing, and thus
increase your productivity. This process is best managed by another pro-
gram, make, which we now describe.
F.6 Makeﬁles
The program make lets you automate much of your build process,
and is thus a crucially important tool for any serious program (and pro-
grammer). Let’s take a look at a simple example, saved in a ﬁle called
Makefile.
To build your program, now all you have to do is type make at the
command line.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
