6
LABORATORY: TUTORIAL
hw: hw.o helper.o
gcc -o hw hw.o helper.o -lm
hw.o: hw.c
gcc -O -Wall -c hw.c
helper.o: helper.c
gcc -O -Wall -c helper.c
clean:
rm -f hw.o helper.o hw
This will (by default) look for Makefile or makefile, and use that
as its input (you can specify a different makeﬁle with a ﬂag; read the
man pages to ﬁnd out which). The gnu version of make, gmake, is more
fully featured than traditional make, so we will focus upon it for the rest
of this discussion (though we will use the two terms interchangeably).
Most of these notes are based on the gmake info page; to see how to ﬁnd
those pages, see the Documentation section below. Also note: on Linux
systems, gmake and make are one and the same.
Makeﬁles are based on rules, which are used to decide what needs to
happen. The general form of a rule:
target: prerequisite1 prerequisite2 ...
command1
command2
...
A target is usually the name of a ﬁle that is generated by a command;
examples of targets are executable or object ﬁles. A target can also be the
name of an action to carry out, such as “clean” in our example.
A prerequisite is a ﬁle that is used as input to create the target. A
target often depends on several ﬁles. For example, to build the executable
hw, we need two object ﬁles to be built ﬁrst: hw.o and helper.o.
Finally, a command is an action that make carries out. A rule may have
more than one command, each on its own line. Important: You have to
put a single tab character at the beginning of every command line! If you
just put spaces, make will print out some obscure error message and exit.
Usually a command is in a rule with prerequisites and serves to cre-
ate a target ﬁle if any of the prerequisites change. However, the rule that
speciﬁes commands for the target need not have prerequisites. For ex-
ample, the rule containing the delete command associated with the target
“clean” does not have prerequisites.
Going back to our example, when make is executed, it roughly works
like this: First, it comes to the target hw, and it realizes that to build it, it
must have two prerequisites, hw.o and helper.o. Thus, hw depends on
those two object ﬁles. Make then will examine each of those targets. In
examining hw.o, it will see that it depends on hw.c. Here is the key: if
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
