LABORATORY: TUTORIAL
9
lem should be easy to ﬁx by inspection, but in a more complex program,
ﬁnding such a problem is not always easy.
To prepare yourself for a debugging session, recompile your program
and make sure to pass the -g ﬂag to each compile line. This includes extra
debugging information in your executable that will be useful during your
debugging session. Also, don’t turn on optimization (-O); though this
may work, it may also lead to confusion during debugging.
After re-compiling with -g, you are ready to use the debugger. Fire
up gdb at the command prompt as follows:
prompt> gdb buggy
This puts you inside an interactive session with the debugger. Note
that you can also use the debugger to examine “core” ﬁles that were pro-
duced during bad runs, or to attach to an already-running program; read
the documentation to learn more about this.
Once inside, you may see something like this:
prompt> gdb buggy
GNU gdb ...
Copyright 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
(gdb)
The ﬁrst thing you might want to do is to go ahead and run the pro-
gram. To do this, simply type run at gdb command prompt. In this case,
this is what you might see:
(gdb) run
Starting program: buggy
Program received signal SIGSEGV, Segmentation fault.
0x8048433 in main (argc=1, argv=0xbffff844) at buggy.c:19
19
printf("%d\n", p->x);
As you can see from the example, in this case, gdb immediately pin-
points where the problem occurred; a “segmentation fault” was gener-
ated at the line where we tried to dereference p. This just means that we
accessed some memory that we weren’t supposed to access. At this point,
the astute programmer can examine the code, and say “aha! it must be
that p does not point to anything valid, and thus should not be derefer-
enced!”, and then go ahead and ﬁx the problem.
However, if you didn’t know what was going on, you might want to
examine some variable. gdb allows you to do this interactively during
the debug session.
(gdb) print p
1 = (Data *) 0x0
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
