10
LABORATORY: TUTORIAL
By using the print primitive, we can examine p, and see both that it is
a pointer to a struct of type Data, and that it is currently set to NULL (or
zero, or hex zero which is shown here as “0x0”).
Finally, you can also set breakpoints within your program to have the
debugger stop the program at a certain routine. After doing this, it is
often useful to step through the execution (one line at a time), and see
what is happening.
(gdb) break main
Breakpoint 1 at 0x8048426: file buggy.c, line 17.
(gdb) run
Starting program: /homes/hacker/buggy
Breakpoint 1, main (argc=1, argv=0xbffff844) at buggy.c:17
17
struct Data *p = NULL;
(gdb) next
19
printf("%d\n", p->x);
(gdb) next
Program received signal SIGSEGV, Segmentation fault.
0x8048433 in main (argc=1, argv=0xbffff844) at buggy.c:19
19
printf("%d\n", p->x);
In the example above, a breakpoint is set at the main() routine; thus,
when we run the program, the debugger almost immediately stops exe-
cution at main. At that point in the example, a “next” command is issued,
which executes the next source-level command. Both “next” and “step”
are useful ways to advance through a program — read about them in the
documentation for more details 2.
This discussion really does not do gdb justice; it is a rich and ﬂexi-
ble debugging tool, with many more features than can be described in
the limited space here. Read more about it on your own and become an
expert in your copious spare time.
F.8 Documentation
To learn a lot more about all of these things, you have to do two things:
the ﬁrst is to use these tools, and the second is to read more about them
on your own. One way to ﬁnd out more about gcc, gmake, and gdb is to
read their man pages; type man gcc, man gmake, or man gdb at your
command prompt. You can also use man -k to search the man pages for
keywords, though that doesn’t always work as well as it might; googling
is probably a better approach here.
One tricky thing about man pages: typing man XXX may not result
in the thing you want, if there is more than one thing called XXX. For
2In particular, you can use the interactive “help” command while debugging with gdb
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
