4
The Abstraction: The Process
In this chapter, we discuss one of the most fundamental abstractions that
the OS provides to users: the process. The deﬁnition of a process, infor-
mally, is quite simple: it is a running program [V+65,BH70]. The program
itself is a lifeless thing: it just sits there on the disk, a bunch of instructions
(and maybe some static data), waiting to spring into action. It is the oper-
ating system that takes these bytes and gets them running, transforming
the program into something useful.
It turns out that one often wants to run more than one program at
once; for example, consider your desktop or laptop where you might like
to run a web browser, mail program, a game, a music player, and so forth.
In fact, a typical system may be seemingly running tens or even hundreds
of processes at the same time. Doing so makes the system easy to use, as
one never need be concerned with whether a CPU is available; one simply
runs programs. Hence our challenge:
THE CRUX OF THE PROBLEM:
HOW TO PROVIDE THE ILLUSION OF MANY CPUS?
Although there are only a few physical CPUs available, how can the
OS provide the illusion of a nearly-endless supply of said CPUs?
The OS creates this illusion by virtualizing the CPU. By running one
process, then stopping it and running another, and so forth, the OS can
promote the illusion that many virtual CPUs exist when in fact there is
only one physical CPU (or a few). This basic technique, known as time
sharing of the CPU, allows users to run as many concurrent processes as
they would like; the potential cost is performance, as each will run more
slowly if the CPU(s) must be shared.
To implement virtualization of the CPU, and to implement it well, the
OS will need both some low-level machinery and some high-level in-
telligence. We call the low-level machinery mechanisms; mechanisms
are low-level methods or protocols that implement a needed piece of
functionality. For example, we’ll learn later how to implement a context
1
