2
THE ABSTRACTION: THE PROCESS
TIP: USE TIME SHARING (AND SPACE SHARING)
Time sharing is a basic technique used by an OS to share a resource. By
allowing the resource to be used for a little while by one entity, and then
a little while by another, and so forth, the resource in question (e.g., the
CPU, or a network link) can be shared by many. The counterpart of time
sharing is space sharing, where a resource is divided (in space) among
those who wish to use it. For example, disk space is naturally a space-
shared resource; once a block is assigned to a ﬁle, it is normally not as-
signed to another ﬁle until the user deletes the original ﬁle.
switch, which gives the OS the ability to stop running one program and
start running another on a given CPU; this time-sharing mechanism is
employed by all modern OSes.
On top of these mechanisms resides some of the intelligence in the
OS, in the form of policies.
Policies are algorithms for making some
kind of decision within the OS. For example, given a number of possi-
ble programs to run on a CPU, which program should the OS run? A
scheduling policy in the OS will make this decision, likely using histori-
cal information (e.g., which program has run more over the last minute?),
workload knowledge (e.g., what types of programs are run), and perfor-
mance metrics (e.g., is the system optimizing for interactive performance,
or throughput?) to make its decision.
4.1 The Abstraction: A Process
The abstraction provided by the OS of a running program is something
we will call a process. As we said above, a process is simply a running
program; at any instant in time, we can summarize a process by taking an
inventory of the different pieces of the system it accesses or affects during
the course of its execution.
To understand what constitutes a process, we thus have to understand
its machine state: what a program can read or update when it is running.
At any given time, what parts of the machine are important to the execu-
tion of this program?
One obvious component of machine state that comprises a process is
its memory. Instructions lie in memory; the data that the running pro-
gram reads and writes sits in memory as well. Thus the memory that the
process can address (called its address space) is part of the process.
Also part of the process’s machine state are registers; many instructions
explicitly read or update registers and thus clearly they are important to
the execution of the process.
Note that there are some particularly special registers that form part
of this machine state. For example, the program counter (PC) (sometimes
called the instruction pointer or IP) tells us which instruction of the pro-
gram will execute next; similarly a stack pointer and associated frame
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
