12
THE ABSTRACTION: THE PROCESS
Homework (Simulation)
This program, process-run.py, allows you to see how process states
change as programs run and either use the CPU (e.g., perform an add
instruction) or do I/O (e.g., send a request to a disk and wait for it to
complete). See the README for details.
Questions
1. Run process-run.py with the following ﬂags: -l 5:100,5:100.
What should the CPU utilization be (e.g., the percent of time the
CPU is in use?) Why do you know this? Use the -c and -p ﬂags to
see if you were right.
2. Now run with these ﬂags: ./process-run.py -l 4:100,1:0.
These ﬂags specify one process with 4 instructions (all to use the
CPU), and one that simply issues an I/O and waits for it to be done.
How long does it take to complete both processes? Use -c and -p
to ﬁnd out if you were right.
3. Switch the order of the processes: -l 1:0,4:100. What happens
now? Does switching the order matter? Why? (As always, use -c
and -p to see if you were right)
4. We’ll now explore some of the other ﬂags. One important ﬂag is
-S, which determines how the system reacts when a process is-
sues an I/O. With the ﬂag set to SWITCH ON END, the system
will NOT switch to another process while one is doing I/O, in-
stead waiting until the process is completely ﬁnished. What hap-
pens when you run the following two processes (-l 1:0,4:100
-c -S SWITCH ON END), one doing I/O and the other doing CPU
work?
5. Now, run the same processes, but with the switching behavior set
to switch to another process whenever one is WAITING for I/O (-l
1:0,4:100 -c -S SWITCH ON IO). What happens now? Use -c
and -p to conﬁrm that you are right.
6. One other important behavior is what to do when an I/O com-
pletes. With -I IO RUN LATER, when an I/O completes, the pro-
cess that issued it is not necessarily run right away; rather, what-
ever was running at the time keeps running. What happens when
you run this combination of processes? (./process-run.py -l
3:0,5:100,5:100,5:100 -S SWITCH ON IO -c -p -I
IO RUN LATER) Are system resources being effectively utilized?
7. Now run the same processes, but with -I IO RUN IMMEDIATE set,
which immediately runs the process that issued the I/O. How does
this behavior differ? Why might running a process that just com-
pleted an I/O again be a good idea?
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
