THE ABSTRACTION: THE PROCESS
3
TIP: SEPARATE POLICY AND MECHANISM
In many operating systems, a common design paradigm is to separate
high-level policies from their low-level mechanisms [L+75].
You can
think of the mechanism as providing the answer to a how question about
a system; for example, how does an operating system perform a context
switch? The policy provides the answer to a which question; for example,
which process should the operating system run right now? Separating the
two allows one easily to change policies without having to rethink the
mechanism and is thus a form of modularity, a general software design
principle.
pointer are used to manage the stack for function parameters, local vari-
ables, and return addresses.
Finally, programs often access persistent storage devices too. Such I/O
information might include a list of the ﬁles the process currently has open.
4.2 Process API
Though we defer discussion of a real process API until a subsequent
chapter, here we ﬁrst give some idea of what must be included in any
interface of an operating system. These APIs, in some form, are available
on any modern operating system.
• Create: An operating system must include some method to cre-
ate new processes. When you type a command into the shell, or
double-click on an application icon, the OS is invoked to create a
new process to run the program you have indicated.
• Destroy: As there is an interface for process creation, systems also
provide an interface to destroy processes forcefully. Of course, many
processes will run and just exit by themselves when complete; when
they don’t, however, the user may wish to kill them, and thus an in-
terface to halt a runaway process is quite useful.
• Wait: Sometimes it is useful to wait for a process to stop running;
thus some kind of waiting interface is often provided.
• Miscellaneous Control: Other than killing or waiting for a process,
there are sometimes other controls that are possible. For example,
most operating systems provide some kind of method to suspend a
process (stop it from running for a while) and then resume it (con-
tinue it running).
• Status: There are usually interfaces to get some status information
about a process as well, such as how long it has run for, or what
state it is in.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
