THE ABSTRACTION: THE PROCESS
5
the machinery of paging and swapping, topics we’ll cover in the future
when we discuss the virtualization of memory. For now, just remember
that before running anything, the OS clearly must do some work to get
the important program bits from disk into memory.
Once the code and static data are loaded into memory, there are a few
other things the OS needs to do before running the process. Some mem-
ory must be allocated for the program’s run-time stack (or just stack).
As you should likely already know, C programs use the stack for local
variables, function parameters, and return addresses; the OS allocates
this memory and gives it to the process. The OS will also likely initial-
ize the stack with arguments; speciﬁcally, it will ﬁll in the parameters to
the main() function, i.e., argc and the argv array.
The OS may also allocate some memory for the program’s heap. In C
programs, the heap is used for explicitly requested dynamically-allocated
data; programs request such space by calling malloc() and free it ex-
plicitly by calling free(). The heap is needed for data structures such as
linked lists, hash tables, trees, and other interesting data structures. The
heap will be small at ﬁrst; as the program runs, and requests more mem-
ory via the malloc() library API, the OS may get involved and allocate
more memory to the process to help satisfy such calls.
The OS will also do some other initialization tasks, particularly as re-
lated to input/output (I/O). For example, in UNIX systems, each process
by default has three open ﬁle descriptors, for standard input, output, and
error; these descriptors let programs easily read input from the terminal
and print output to the screen. We’ll learn more about I/O, ﬁle descrip-
tors, and the like in the third part of the book on persistence.
By loading the code and static data into memory, by creating and ini-
tializing a stack, and by doing other work as related to I/O setup, the OS
has now (ﬁnally) set the stage for program execution. It thus has one last
task: to start the program running at the entry point, namely main(). By
jumping to the main() routine (through a specialized mechanism that
we will discuss next chapter), the OS transfers control of the CPU to the
newly-created process, and thus the program begins its execution.
4.4 Process States
Now that we have some idea of what a process is (though we will
continue to reﬁne this notion), and (roughly) how it is created, let us talk
about the different states a process can be in at a given time. The notion
that a process can be in one of these states arose in early computer systems
[DV66,V+65]. In a simpliﬁed view, a process can be in one of three states:
• Running: In the running state, a process is running on a processor.
This means it is executing instructions.
• Ready: In the ready state, a process is ready to run but for some
reason the OS has chosen not to run it at this given moment.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
