THE ABSTRACTION: THE PROCESS
9
ASIDE: DATA STRUCTURE — THE PROCESS LIST
Operating systems are replete with various important data structures
that we will discuss in these notes. The process list (also called the task
list) is the ﬁrst such structure. It is one of the simpler ones, but certainly
any OS that has the ability to run multiple programs at once will have
something akin to this structure in order to keep track of all the running
programs in the system. Sometimes people refer to the individual struc-
ture that stores information about a process as a Process Control Block
(PCB), a fancy way of talking about a C structure that contains informa-
tion about each process (also sometimes called a process descriptor).
has not yet been cleaned up (in UNIX-based systems, this is called the
zombie state1). This ﬁnal state can be useful as it allows other processes
(usually the parent that created the process) to examine the return code
of the process and see if the just-ﬁnished process executed successfully
(usually, programs return zero in UNIX-based systems when they have
accomplished a task successfully, and non-zero otherwise). When ﬁn-
ished, the parent will make one ﬁnal call (e.g., wait()) to wait for the
completion of the child, and to also indicate to the OS that it can clean up
any relevant data structures that referred to the now-extinct process.
4.6 Summary
We have introduced the most basic abstraction of the OS: the process.
It is quite simply viewed as a running program. With this conceptual
view in mind, we will now move on to the nitty-gritty: the low-level
mechanisms needed to implement processes, and the higher-level poli-
cies required to schedule them in an intelligent way. By combining mech-
anisms and policies, we will build up our understanding of how an oper-
ating system virtualizes the CPU.
1Yes, the zombie state. Just like real zombies, these zombies are relatively easy to kill.
However, different techniques are usually recommended.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
