43
Log-structured File Systems
In the early 90’s, a group at Berkeley led by Professor John Ousterhout
and graduate student Mendel Rosenblum developed a new ﬁle system
known as the log-structured ﬁle system [RO91]. Their motivation to do
so was based on the following observations:
• System memories are growing: As memory gets bigger, more data
can be cached in memory. As more data is cached, disk trafﬁc in-
creasingly consists of writes, as reads are serviced by the cache.
Thus, ﬁle system performance is largely determined by its write
performance.
• There is a large gap between random I/O performance and se-
quential I/O performance: Hard-drive transfer bandwidth has in-
creased a great deal over the years [P98]; as more bits are packed
into the surface of a drive, the bandwidth when accessing said bits
increases. Seek and rotational delay costs, however, have decreased
slowly; it is challenging to make cheap and small motors spin the
platters faster or move the disk arm more quickly. Thus, if you are
able to use disks in a sequential manner, you gain a sizeable perfor-
mance advantage over approaches that cause seeks and rotations.
• Existing ﬁle systems perform poorly on many common workloads:
For example, FFS [MJLF84] would perform a large number of writes
to create a new ﬁle of size one block: one for a new inode, one to
update the inode bitmap, one to the directory data block that the
ﬁle is in, one to the directory inode to update it, one to the new data
block that is a part of the new ﬁle, and one to the data bitmap to
mark the data block as allocated. Thus, although FFS places all of
these blocks within the same block group, FFS incurs many short
seeks and subsequent rotational delays and thus performance falls
far short of peak sequential bandwidth.
• File systems are not RAID-aware: For example, both RAID-4 and
RAID-5 have the small-write problem where a logical write to a
single block causes 4 physical I/Os to take place. Existing ﬁle sys-
tems do not try to avoid this worst-case RAID writing behavior.
1
