2
LOG-STRUCTURED FILE SYSTEMS
TIP: DETAILS MATTER
All interesting systems are comprised of a few general ideas and a num-
ber of details. Sometimes, when you are learning about these systems,
you think to yourself “Oh, I get the general idea; the rest is just details,”
and you use this to only half-learn how things really work. Don’t do this!
Many times, the details are critical. As we’ll see with LFS, the general idea
is easy to understand, but to really build a working system, you have to
think through all of the tricky cases.
An ideal ﬁle system would thus focus on write performance, and try
to make use of the sequential bandwidth of the disk. Further, it would
perform well on common workloads that not only write out data but also
update on-disk metadata structures frequently. Finally, it would work
well on RAIDs as well as single disks.
The new type of ﬁle system Rosenblum and Ousterhout introduced
was called LFS, short for the Log-structured File System. When writ-
ing to disk, LFS ﬁrst buffers all updates (including metadata!) in an in-
memory segment; when the segment is full, it is written to disk in one
long, sequential transfer to an unused part of the disk. LFS never over-
writes existing data, but rather always writes segments to free locations.
Because segments are large, the disk (or RAID) is used efﬁciently, and
performance of the ﬁle system approaches its zenith.
THE CRUX:
HOW TO MAKE ALL WRITES SEQUENTIAL WRITES?
How can a ﬁle system transform all writes into sequential writes? For
reads, this task is impossible, as the desired block to be read may be any-
where on disk. For writes, however, the ﬁle system always has a choice,
and it is exactly this choice we hope to exploit.
43.1 Writing To Disk Sequentially
We thus have our ﬁrst challenge: how do we transform all updates to
ﬁle-system state into a series of sequential writes to disk? To understand
this better, let’s use a simple example. Imagine we are writing a data block
D to a ﬁle. Writing the data block to disk might result in the following
on-disk layout, with D written at disk address A0:
D
A0
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
