LOG-STRUCTURED FILE SYSTEMS
13
TIP: TURN FLAWS INTO VIRTUES
Whenever your system has a fundamental ﬂaw, see if you can turn it
around into a feature or something useful. NetApp’s WAFL does this
with old ﬁle contents; by making old versions available, WAFL no longer
has to worry about cleaning quite so often (though it does delete old ver-
sions, eventually, in the background), and thus provides a cool feature
and removes much of the LFS cleaning problem all in one wonderful
twist. Are there other examples of this in systems? Undoubtedly, but
you’ll have to think of them yourself, because this chapter is over with a
capital “O”. Over. Done. Kaput. We’re out. Peace!
The large writes that LFS generates are excellent for performance on
many different devices. On hard drives, large writes ensure that posi-
tioning time is minimized; on parity-based RAIDs, such as RAID-4 and
RAID-5, they avoid the small-write problem entirely. Recent research has
even shown that large I/Os are required for high performance on Flash-
based SSDs [HK+17]; thus, perhaps surprisingly, LFS-style ﬁle systems
may be an excellent choice even for these new mediums.
The downside to this approach is that it generates garbage; old copies
of the data are scattered throughout the disk, and if one wants to re-
claim such space for subsequent usage, one must clean old segments pe-
riodically. Cleaning became the focus of much controversy in LFS, and
concerns over cleaning costs [SS+95] perhaps limited LFS’s initial impact
on the ﬁeld. However, some modern commercial ﬁle systems, including
NetApp’s WAFL [HLM94], Sun’s ZFS [B07], and Linux btrfs [R+13], and
even modern ﬂash-based SSDs [AD14], adopt a similar copy-on-write
approach to writing to disk, and thus the intellectual legacy of LFS lives
on in these modern ﬁle systems. In particular, WAFL got around clean-
ing problems by turning them into a feature; by providing old versions of
the ﬁle system via snapshots, users could access old ﬁles whenever they
deleted current ones accidentally.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
