LOG-STRUCTURED FILE SYSTEMS
15
Homework (Simulation)
This section introduces lfs.py, a simple LFS simulator you can use
to understand better how an LFS-based ﬁle system works.
Read the
README for details on how to run the simulator.
Questions
1. Run ./lfs.py -n 3, perhaps varying the seed (-s). Can you ﬁg-
ure out which commands were run to generate the ﬁnal ﬁle system
contents? Can you tell which order those commands were issued?
Finally, can you determine the liveness of each block in the ﬁnal
ﬁle system state? Use -o to show which commands were run, and
-c to show the liveness of the ﬁnal ﬁle system state. How much
harder does the task become for you as you increase the number of
commands issued (i.e., change -n 3 to -n 5)?
2. If you ﬁnd the above painful, you can help yourself a little bit by
showing the set of updates caused by each speciﬁc command. To do
so, run ./lfs.py -n 3 -i. Now see if it is easier to understand
what each command must have been. Change the random seed to
get different commands to interpret (e.g., -s 1, -s 2, -s 3, etc.).
3. To further test your ability to ﬁgure out what updates are made to
disk by each command, run the following: ./lfs.py -o -F -s
100 (and perhaps a few other random seeds). This just shows a
set of commands and does NOT show you the ﬁnal state of the ﬁle
system. Can you reason about what the ﬁnal state of the ﬁle system
must be?
4. Now see if you can determine which ﬁles and directories are live
after a number of ﬁle and directory operations. Run tt ./lfs.py
-n 20 -s 1 and then examine the ﬁnal ﬁle system state. Can you
ﬁgure out which pathnames are valid? Run tt ./lfs.py -n 20
-s 1 -c -v to see the results. Run with -o to see if your answers
match up given the series of random commands. Use different ran-
dom seeds to get more problems.
5. Now let’s issue some speciﬁc commands. First, let’s create a ﬁle
and write to it repeatedly. To do so, use the -L ﬂag, which lets you
specify speciﬁc commands to execute. Let’s create the ﬁle ”/foo”
and write to it four times:
-L c,/foo:w,/foo,0,1:w,/foo,1,1:w,/foo,2,1:w,/foo,3,1
-o. See if you can determine the liveness of the ﬁnal ﬁle system
state; use -c to check your answers.
6. Now, let’s do the same thing, but with a single write operation in-
stead of four. Run ./lfs.py -o -L c,/foo:w,/foo,0,4 to
create ﬁle ”/foo” and write 4 blocks with a single write operation.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
