16
LOG-STRUCTURED FILE SYSTEMS
Compute the liveness again, and check if you are right with -c.
What is the main difference between writing a ﬁle all at once (as
we do here) versus doing it one block at a time (as above)? What
does this tell you about the importance of buffering updates in main
memory as the real LFS does?
7. Let’s do another speciﬁc example. First, run the following: ./lfs.py
-L c,/foo:w,/foo,0,1. What does this set of commands do?
Now, run ./lfs.py -L c,/foo:w,/foo,7,1. What does this
set of commands do? How are the two different? What can you tell
about the size ﬁeld in the inode from these two sets of commands?
8. Now let’s look explicitly at ﬁle creation versus directory creation.
Run simulations ./lfs.py -L c,/foo and ./lfs.py -L d,/foo
to create a ﬁle and then a directory. What is similar about these runs,
and what is different?
9. The LFS simulator supports hard links as well. Run the following
to study how they work:
./lfs.py -L c,/foo:l,/foo,/bar:l,/foo,/goo -o -i.
What blocks are written out when a hard link is created? How is
this similar to just creating a new ﬁle, and how is it different? How
does the reference count ﬁeld change as links are created?
10. LFS makes many different policy decisions.
We do not explore
many of them here – perhaps something left for the future – but here
is a simple one we do explore: the choice of inode number. First, run
./lfs.py -p c100 -n 10 -o -a s to show the usual behav-
ior with the ”sequential” allocation policy, which tries to use free
inode numbers nearest to zero. Then, change to a ”random” policy
by running ./lfs.py -p c100 -n 10 -o -a r (the -p c100
ﬂag ensures 100 percent of the random operations are ﬁle creations).
What on-disk differences does a random policy versus a sequential
policy result in? What does this say about the importance of choos-
ing inode numbers in a real LFS?
11. One last thing we’ve been assuming is that the LFS simulator al-
ways updates the checkpoint region after each update. In the real
LFS, that isn’t the case: it is updated periodically to avoid long
seeks. Run ./lfs.py -N -i -o -s 1000 to see some opera-
tions and the intermediate and ﬁnal states of the ﬁle system when
the checkpoint region isn’t forced to disk. What would happen if
the checkpoint region is never updated? What if it is updated peri-
odically? Could you ﬁgure out how to recover the ﬁle system to the
latest state by rolling forward in the log?
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
