LOG-STRUCTURED FILE SYSTEMS
3
However, when a user writes a data block, it is not only data that gets
written to disk; there is also other metadata that needs to be updated.
In this case, let’s also write the inode (I) of the ﬁle to disk, and have it
point to the data block D. When written to disk, the data block and inode
would look something like this (note that the inode looks as big as the
data block, which generally isn’t the case; in most systems, data blocks
are 4 KB in size, whereas an inode is much smaller, around 128 bytes):
D
A0
I
b[0]:A0
This basic idea, of simply writing all updates (such as data blocks,
inodes, etc.) to the disk sequentially, sits at the heart of LFS. If you un-
derstand this, you get the basic idea. But as with all complicated systems,
the devil is in the details.
43.2 Writing Sequentially And Effectively
Unfortunately, writing to disk sequentially is not (alone) enough to
guarantee efﬁcient writes. For example, imagine if we wrote a single
block to address A, at time T. We then wait a little while, and write to
the disk at address A + 1 (the next block address in sequential order),
but at time T + δ. In-between the ﬁrst and second writes, unfortunately,
the disk has rotated; when you issue the second write, it will thus wait
for most of a rotation before being committed (speciﬁcally, if the rotation
takes time Trotation, the disk will wait Trotation −δ before it can commit
the second write to the disk surface). And thus you can hopefully see
that simply writing to disk in sequential order is not enough to achieve
peak performance; rather, you must issue a large number of contiguous
writes (or one large write) to the drive in order to achieve good write
performance.
To achieve this end, LFS uses an ancient technique known as write
buffering1. Before writing to the disk, LFS keeps track of updates in
memory; when it has received a sufﬁcient number of updates, it writes
them to disk all at once, thus ensuring efﬁcient use of the disk.
The large chunk of updates LFS writes at one time is referred to by
the name of a segment. Although this term is over-used in computer
systems, here it just means a large-ish chunk which LFS uses to group
writes. Thus, when writing to disk, LFS buffers updates in an in-memory
1Indeed, it is hard to ﬁnd a good citation for this idea, since it was likely invented by many
and very early on in the history of computing. For a study of the beneﬁts of write buffering,
see Solworth and Orji [SO90]; to learn about its potential harms, see Mogul [M94].
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
