LOG-STRUCTURED FILE SYSTEMS
5
At this point, we can solve for D:
Reffective =
D
Tposition +
D
Rpeak
= F × Rpeak
(43.3)
D = F × Rpeak × (Tposition +
D
Rpeak )
(43.4)
D = (F × Rpeak × Tposition) + (F × Rpeak ×
D
Rpeak )
(43.5)
D =
F
1 −F × Rpeak × Tposition
(43.6)
Let’s do an example, with a disk with a positioning time of 10 mil-
liseconds and peak transfer rate of 100 MB/s; assume we want an ef-
fective bandwidth of 90% of peak (F = 0.9). In this case, D =
0.9
0.1 ×
100 MB/s × 0.01 seconds = 9 MB. Try some different values to see
how much we need to buffer in order to approach peak bandwidth. How
much is needed to reach 95% of peak? 99%?
43.4 Problem: Finding Inodes
To understand how we ﬁnd an inode in LFS, let us brieﬂy review how
to ﬁnd an inode in a typical UNIX ﬁle system. In a typical ﬁle system such
as FFS, or even the old UNIX ﬁle system, ﬁnding inodes is easy, because
they are organized in an array and placed on disk at ﬁxed locations.
For example, the old UNIX ﬁle system keeps all inodes at a ﬁxed por-
tion of the disk. Thus, given an inode number and the start address, to
ﬁnd a particular inode, you can calculate its exact disk address simply by
multiplying the inode number by the size of an inode, and adding that
to the start address of the on-disk array; array-based indexing, given an
inode number, is fast and straightforward.
Finding an inode given an inode number in FFS is only slightly more
complicated, because FFS splits up the inode table into chunks and places
a group of inodes within each cylinder group. Thus, one must know how
big each chunk of inodes is and the start addresses of each. After that, the
calculations are similar and also easy.
In LFS, life is more difﬁcult. Why? Well, we’ve managed to scatter the
inodes all throughout the disk! Worse, we never overwrite in place, and
thus the latest version of an inode (i.e., the one we want) keeps moving.
43.5 Solution Through Indirection: The Inode Map
To remedy this, the designers of LFS introduced a level of indirection
between inode numbers and the inodes through a data structure called
the inode map (imap). The imap is a structure that takes an inode number
as input and produces the disk address of the most recent version of the
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
