6
LOG-STRUCTURED FILE SYSTEMS
TIP: USE A LEVEL OF INDIRECTION
People often say that the solution to all problems in Computer Science is
simply a level of indirection. This is clearly not true; it is just the solution
to most problems (yes, this is still too strong of a comment, but you get the
point). You certainly can think of every virtualization we have studied,
e.g., virtual memory, or the notion of a ﬁle, as simply a level of indirection.
And certainly the inode map in LFS is a virtualization of inode numbers.
Hopefully you can see the great power of indirection in these examples,
allowing us to freely move structures around (such as pages in the VM
example, or inodes in LFS) without having to change every reference to
them. Of course, indirection can have a downside too: extra overhead. So
next time you have a problem, try solving it with indirection, but make
sure to think about the overheads of doing so ﬁrst. As Wheeler famously
said, “All problems in computer science can be solved by another level of
indirection, except of course for the problem of too many indirections.”
inode. Thus, you can imagine it would often be implemented as a simple
array, with 4 bytes (a disk pointer) per entry. Any time an inode is written
to disk, the imap is updated with its new location.
The imap, unfortunately, needs to be kept persistent (i.e., written to
disk); doing so allows LFS to keep track of the locations of inodes across
crashes, and thus operate as desired. Thus, a question: where should the
imap reside on disk?
It could live on a ﬁxed part of the disk, of course. Unfortunately, as it
gets updated frequently, this would then require updates to ﬁle structures
to be followed by writes to the imap, and hence performance would suffer
(i.e., there would be more disk seeks, between each update and the ﬁxed
location of the imap).
Instead, LFS places chunks of the inode map right next to where it is
writing all of the other new information. Thus, when appending a data
block to a ﬁle k, LFS actually writes the new data block, its inode, and a
piece of the inode map all together onto the disk, as follows:
D
A0
I[k]
b[0]:A0
A1
imap
m[k]:A1
In this picture, the piece of the imap array stored in the block marked
imap tells LFS that the inode k is at disk address A1; this inode, in turn,
tells LFS that its data block D is at address A0.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
