LOG-STRUCTURED FILE SYSTEMS
7
43.6 Completing The Solution: The Checkpoint Region
The clever reader (that’s you, right?) might have noticed a problem
here. How do we ﬁnd the inode map, now that pieces of it are also now
spread across the disk? In the end, there is no magic: the ﬁle system must
have some ﬁxed and known location on disk to begin a ﬁle lookup.
LFS has just such a ﬁxed place on disk for this, known as the check-
point region (CR). The checkpoint region contains pointers to (i.e., ad-
dresses of) the latest pieces of the inode map, and thus the inode map
pieces can be found by reading the CR ﬁrst. Note the checkpoint region
is only updated periodically (say every 30 seconds or so), and thus perfor-
mance is not ill-affected. Thus, the overall structure of the on-disk layout
contains a checkpoint region (which points to the latest pieces of the in-
ode map); the inode map pieces each contain addresses of the inodes; the
inodes point to ﬁles (and directories) just like typical UNIX ﬁle systems.
Here is an example of the checkpoint region (note it is all the way at
the beginning of the disk, at address 0), and a single imap chunk, inode,
and data block. A real ﬁle system would of course have a much bigger
CR (indeed, it would have two, as we’ll come to understand later), many
imap chunks, and of course many more inodes, data blocks, etc.
imap
[k...k+N]:
A2
CR
0
D
A0
I[k]
b[0]:A0
A1
imap
m[k]:A1
A2
43.7 Reading A File From Disk: A Recap
To make sure you understand how LFS works, let us now walk through
what must happen to read a ﬁle from disk. Assume we have nothing in
memory to begin. The ﬁrst on-disk data structure we must read is the
checkpoint region. The checkpoint region contains pointers (i.e., disk ad-
dresses) to the entire inode map, and thus LFS then reads in the entire in-
ode map and caches it in memory. After this point, when given an inode
number of a ﬁle, LFS simply looks up the inode-number to inode-disk-
address mapping in the imap, and reads in the most recent version of the
inode. To read a block from the ﬁle, at this point, LFS proceeds exactly
as a typical UNIX ﬁle system, by using direct pointers or indirect pointers
or doubly-indirect pointers as need be. In the common case, LFS should
perform the same number of I/Os as a typical ﬁle system when reading a
ﬁle from disk; the entire imap is cached and thus the extra work LFS does
during a read is to look up the inode’s address in the imap.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
