8
LOG-STRUCTURED FILE SYSTEMS
43.8 What About Directories?
Thus far, we’ve simpliﬁed our discussion a bit by only considering in-
odes and data blocks. However, to access a ﬁle in a ﬁle system (such as
/home/remzi/foo, one of our favorite fake ﬁle names), some directo-
ries must be accessed too. So how does LFS store directory data?
Fortunately, directory structure is basically identical to classic UNIX
ﬁle systems, in that a directory is just a collection of (name, inode number)
mappings. For example, when creating a ﬁle on disk, LFS must both write
a new inode, some data, as well as the directory data and its inode that
refer to this ﬁle. Remember that LFS will do so sequentially on the disk
(after buffering the updates for some time). Thus, creating a ﬁle foo in a
directory would lead to the following new structures on disk:
Dk
A0
I[k]
b[0]:A0
A1
(foo, k)
Ddir
A2
I[dir]
b[0]:A2
A3
m[k]:A1
m[dir]:A3
imap
The piece of the inode map contains the information for the location of
both the directory ﬁle dir as well as the newly-created ﬁle f. Thus, when
accessing ﬁle foo (with inode number k), you would ﬁrst look in the
inode map (usually cached in memory) to ﬁnd the location of the inode
of directory dir (A3); you then read the directory inode, which gives you
the location of the directory data (A2); reading this data block gives you
the name-to-inode-number mapping of (foo, k). You then consult the
inode map again to ﬁnd the location of inode number k (A1), and ﬁnally
read the desired data block at address A0.
There is one other serious problem in LFS that the inode map solves,
known as the recursive update problem [Z+12].
The problem arises
in any ﬁle system that never updates in place (such as LFS), but rather
moves updates to new locations on the disk.
Speciﬁcally, whenever an inode is updated, its location on disk changes.
If we hadn’t been careful, this would have also entailed an update to
the directory that points to this ﬁle, which then would have mandated
a change to the parent of that directory, and so on, all the way up the ﬁle
system tree.
LFS cleverly avoids this problem with the inode map. Even though
the location of an inode may change, the change is never reﬂected in the
directory itself; rather, the imap structure is updated while the directory
holds the same name-to-inode-number mapping. Thus, through indirec-
tion, LFS avoids the recursive update problem.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
