LOG-STRUCTURED FILE SYSTEMS
9
43.9 A New Problem: Garbage Collection
You may have noticed another problem with LFS; it repeatedly writes
the latest version of a ﬁle (including its inode and data) to new locations
on disk. This process, while keeping writes efﬁcient, implies that LFS
leaves old versions of ﬁle structures scattered throughout the disk. We
(rather unceremoniously) call these old versions garbage.
For example, let’s imagine the case where we have an existing ﬁle re-
ferred to by inode number k, which points to a single data block D0.
We now update that block, generating both a new inode and a new data
block. The resulting on-disk layout of LFS would look something like this
(note we omit the imap and other structures for simplicity; a new chunk
of imap would also have to be written to disk to point to the new inode):
D0
A0
I[k]
b[0]:A0
(garbage)
D0
A4
I[k]
b[0]:A4
In the diagram, you can see that both the inode and data block have
two versions on disk, one old (the one on the left) and one current and
thus live (the one on the right). By the simple act of (logically) updating
a data block, a number of new structures must be persisted by LFS, thus
leaving old versions of said blocks on the disk.
As another example, imagine we instead append a block to that orig-
inal ﬁle k. In this case, a new version of the inode is generated, but the
old data block is still pointed to by the inode. Thus, it is still live and very
much part of the current ﬁle system:
D0
A0
I[k]
b[0]:A0
(garbage)
D1
A4
b[0]:A0
b[1]:A4
I[k]
So what should we do with these older versions of inodes, data blocks,
and so forth? One could keep those older versions around and allow
users to restore old ﬁle versions (for example, when they accidentally
overwrite or delete a ﬁle, it could be quite handy to do so); such a ﬁle
system is known as a versioning ﬁle system because it keeps track of the
different versions of a ﬁle.
However, LFS instead keeps only the latest live version of a ﬁle; thus
(in the background), LFS must periodically ﬁnd these old dead versions
of ﬁle data, inodes, and other structures, and clean them; cleaning should
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
