10
LOG-STRUCTURED FILE SYSTEMS
thus make blocks on disk free again for use in subsequent writes. Note
that the process of cleaning is a form of garbage collection, a technique
that arises in programming languages that automatically free unused mem-
ory for programs.
Earlier we discussed segments as important as they are the mechanism
that enables large writes to disk in LFS. As it turns out, they are also quite
integral to effective cleaning. Imagine what would happen if the LFS
cleaner simply went through and freed single data blocks, inodes, etc.,
during cleaning. The result: a ﬁle system with some number of free holes
mixed between allocated space on disk. Write performance would drop
considerably, as LFS would not be able to ﬁnd a large contiguous region
to write to disk sequentially and with high performance.
Instead, the LFS cleaner works on a segment-by-segment basis, thus
clearing up large chunks of space for subsequent writing. The basic clean-
ing process works as follows. Periodically, the LFS cleaner reads in a
number of old (partially-used) segments, determines which blocks are
live within these segments, and then write out a new set of segments
with just the live blocks within them, freeing up the old ones for writing.
Speciﬁcally, we expect the cleaner to read in M existing segments, com-
pact their contents into N new segments (where N < M), and then write
the N segments to disk in new locations. The old M segments are then
freed and can be used by the ﬁle system for subsequent writes.
We are now left with two problems, however. The ﬁrst is mechanism:
how can LFS tell which blocks within a segment are live, and which are
dead? The second is policy: how often should the cleaner run, and which
segments should it pick to clean?
43.10 Determining Block Liveness
We address the mechanism ﬁrst. Given a data block D within an on-
disk segment S, LFS must be able to determine whether D is live. To do
so, LFS adds a little extra information to each segment that describes each
block. Speciﬁcally, LFS includes, for each data block D, its inode number
(which ﬁle it belongs to) and its offset (which block of the ﬁle this is). This
information is recorded in a structure at the head of the segment known
as the segment summary block.
Given this information, it is straightforward to determine whether a
block is live or dead. For a block D located on disk at address A, look
in the segment summary block and ﬁnd its inode number N and offset
T. Next, look in the imap to ﬁnd where N lives and read N from disk
(perhaps it is already in memory, which is even better). Finally, using
the offset T, look in the inode (or some indirect block) to see where the
inode thinks the Tth block of this ﬁle is on disk. If it points exactly to disk
address A, LFS can conclude that the block D is live. If it points anywhere
else, LFS can conclude that D is not in use (i.e., it is dead) and thus know
that this version is no longer needed. Here is a pseudocode summary:
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
