2
DATA INTEGRITY AND PROTECTION
Cheap
Costly
LSEs
9.40%
1.40%
Corruption
0.50%
0.05%
Figure 45.1: Frequency Of LSEs And Block Corruption
LSEs arise when a disk sector (or group of sectors) has been damaged
in some way. For example, if the disk head touches the surface for some
reason (a head crash, something which shouldn’t happen during nor-
mal operation), it may damage the surface, making the bits unreadable.
Cosmic rays can also ﬂip bits, leading to incorrect contents. Fortunately,
in-disk error correcting codes (ECC) are used by the drive to determine
whether the on-disk bits in a block are good, and in some cases, to ﬁx
them; if they are not good, and the drive does not have enough informa-
tion to ﬁx the error, the disk will return an error when a request is issued
to read them.
There are also cases where a disk block becomes corrupt in a way not
detectable by the disk itself. For example, buggy disk ﬁrmware may write
a block to the wrong location; in such a case, the disk ECC indicates the
block contents are ﬁne, but from the client’s perspective the wrong block
is returned when subsequently accessed. Similarly, a block may get cor-
rupted when it is transferred from the host to the disk across a faulty bus;
the resulting corrupt data is stored by the disk, but it is not what the client
desires. These types of faults are particularly insidious because they are
silent faults; the disk gives no indication of the problem when returning
the faulty data.
Prabhakaran et al. describes this more modern view of disk failure as
the fail-partial disk failure model [P+05]. In this view, disks can still fail
in their entirety (as was the case in the traditional fail-stop model); how-
ever, disks can also seemingly be working and have one or more blocks
become inaccessible (i.e., LSEs) or hold the wrong contents (i.e., corrup-
tion). Thus, when accessing a seemingly-working disk, once in a while
it may either return an error when trying to read or write a given block
(a non-silent partial fault), and once in a while it may simply return the
wrong data (a silent partial fault).
Both of these types of faults are somewhat rare, but just how rare? Fig-
ure 45.1 summarizes some of the ﬁndings from the two Bairavasundaram
studies [B+07,B+08].
The ﬁgure shows the percent of drives that exhibited at least one LSE
or block corruption over the course of the study (about 3 years, over
1.5 million disk drives). The ﬁgure further sub-divides the results into
“cheap” drives (usually SATA drives) and “costly” drives (usually SCSI
or Fibre Channel). As you can see, while buying better drives reduces
the frequency of both types of problem (by about an order of magnitude),
they still happen often enough that you need to think carefully about how
to handle them in your storage system.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
