DATA INTEGRITY AND PROTECTION
13
Homework (Simulation)
In this homework, you’ll use checksum.py to investigate various as-
pects of checksums.
Questions
1. First just run checksum.py with no arguments. Compute the ad-
ditive, XOR-based, and Fletcher checksums. Use -c to check your
answers.
2. Now do the same, but vary the seed (-s) to different values.
3. Sometimes the additive and XOR-based checksums produce the
same checksum (e.g., if the data value is all zeroes). Can you pass
in a 4-byte data value (using the -D ﬂag, e.g., -D a,b,c,d) that
does not contain only zeroes and leads the additive and XOR-based
checksum having the same value? In general, when does this oc-
cur? Check that you are correct with the -c ﬂag.
4. Now pass in a 4-byte value that you know will produce a different
checksum values for additive and XOR. In general, when does this
occur?
5. Use the simulator to compute checksums twice (once each for a dif-
ferent set of numbers). The two number strings should be different
(e.g., -D a1,b1,c1,d1 the ﬁrst time and -D a2,b2,c2,d2 the
second) but should produce the same additive checksum. In gen-
eral, when will the additive checksum be the same, even though the
data values are different? Check your speciﬁc answer with the -c
ﬂag.
6. Now do the same for the XOR checksum.
7. Now let’s look at a speciﬁc set of data values.
The ﬁrst is: -D
1,2,3,4. What will the different checksums (additive, XOR, Fletcher)
be for this data? Now compare it to computing these checksums
over -D 4,3,2,1. What do you notice about these three check-
sums? How does Fletcher compare to the other two? How is Fletcher
generally “better” than something like the simple additive check-
sum?
8. No checksum is perfect. Given a particular input of your choosing,
can you ﬁnd other data values that lead to the same Fletcher check-
sum? When, in general, does this occur? Start with a simple data
string (e.g., -D 0,1,2,3) and see if you can replace one of those
numbers but end up with the same Fletcher checksum. As always,
use -c to check your answers.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
