4
DATA INTEGRITY AND PROTECTION
The growing prevalence of LSEs has inﬂuenced RAID designs over the
years. One particularly interesting problem arises in RAID-4/5 systems
when both full-disk faults and LSEs occur in tandem. Speciﬁcally, when
an entire disk fails, the RAID tries to reconstruct the disk (say, onto a
hot spare) by reading through all of the other disks in the parity group
and recomputing the missing values. If, during reconstruction, an LSE
is encountered on any one of the other disks, we have a problem: the
reconstruction cannot successfully complete.
To combat this issue, some systems add an extra degree of redundancy.
For example, NetApp’s RAID-DP has the equivalent of two parity disks
instead of one [C+04]. When an LSE is discovered during reconstruction,
the extra parity helps to reconstruct the missing block. As always, there is
a cost, in that maintaining two parity blocks for each stripe is more costly;
however, the log-structured nature of the NetApp WAFL ﬁle system mit-
igates that cost in many cases [HLM94]. The remaining cost is space, in
the form of an extra disk for the second parity block.
45.3 Detecting Corruption: The Checksum
Let’s now tackle the more challenging problem, that of silent failures
via data corruption. How can we prevent users from getting bad data
when corruption arises, and thus leads to disks returning bad data?
CRUX: HOW TO PRESERVE DATA INTEGRITY DESPITE CORRUPTION
Given the silent nature of such failures, what can a storage system do
to detect when corruption arises? What techniques are needed? How can
one implement them efﬁciently?
Unlike latent sector errors, detection of corruption is a key problem.
How can a client tell that a block has gone bad? Once it is known that a
particular block is bad, recovery is the same as before: you need to have
some other copy of the block around (and hopefully, one that is not cor-
rupt!). Thus, we focus here on detection techniques.
The primary mechanism used by modern storage systems to preserve
data integrity is called the checksum. A checksum is simply the result
of a function that takes a chunk of data (say a 4KB block) as input and
computes a function over said data, producing a small summary of the
contents of the data (say 4 or 8 bytes). This summary is referred to as the
checksum. The goal of such a computation is to enable a system to detect
if data has somehow been corrupted or altered by storing the checksum
with the data and then conﬁrming upon later access that the data’s cur-
rent checksum matches the original storage value.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
