6
DATA INTEGRITY AND PROTECTION
Another basic checksum function is addition. This approach has the
advantage of being fast; computing it just requires performing 2’s-complement
addition over each chunk of the data, ignoring overﬂow. It can detect
many changes in data, but is not good if the data, for example, is shifted.
A slightly more complex algorithm is known as the Fletcher check-
sum, named (as you might guess) for the inventor, John G. Fletcher [F82].
It is quite simple to compute and involves the computation of two check
bytes, s1 and s2. Speciﬁcally, assume a block D consists of bytes d1 ...
dn; s1 is deﬁned as follows: s1 = (s1 + di) mod 255 (computed over all
di); s2 in turn is: s2 = (s2 + s1) mod 255 (again over all di) [F04]. The
Fletcher checksum is almost as strong as the CRC (see below), detecting
all single-bit, double-bit errors, and many burst errors [F04].
One ﬁnal commonly-used checksum is known as a cyclic redundancy
check (CRC). Assume you wish to compute the checksum over a data
block D. All you do is treat D as if it is a large binary number (it is just
a string of bits after all) and divide it by an agreed upon value (k). The
remainder of this division is the value of the CRC. As it turns out, one
can implement this binary modulo operation rather efﬁciently, and hence
the popularity of the CRC in networking as well. See elsewhere for more
details [M13].
Whatever the method used, it should be obvious that there is no per-
fect checksum: it is possible two data blocks with non-identical contents
will have identical checksums, something referred to as a collision. This
fact should be intuitive: after all, computing a checksum is taking some-
thing large (e.g., 4KB) and producing a summary that is much smaller
(e.g., 4 or 8 bytes). In choosing a good checksum function, we are thus
trying to ﬁnd one that minimizes the chance of collisions while remain-
ing easy to compute.
Checksum Layout
Now that you understand a bit about how to compute a checksum, let’s
next analyze how to use checksums in a storage system. The ﬁrst question
we must address is the layout of the checksum, i.e., how should check-
sums be stored on disk?
The most basic approach simply stores a checksum with each disk sec-
tor (or block). Given a data block D, let us call the checksum over that
data C(D). Thus, without checksums, the disk layout looks like this:
D0
D1
D2
D3
D4
D5
D6
With checksums, the layout adds a single checksum for every block:
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
