DATA INTEGRITY AND PROTECTION
7
C[D0]
D0
C[D1]
D1
C[D2]
D2
C[D3]
D3
C[D4]
D4
Because checksums are usually small (e.g., 8 bytes), and disks only can
write in sector-sized chunks (512 bytes) or multiples thereof, one problem
that arises is how to achieve the above layout. One solution employed by
drive manufacturers is to format the drive with 520-byte sectors; an extra
8 bytes per sector can be used to store the checksum.
In disks that don’t have such functionality, the ﬁle system must ﬁgure
out a way to store the checksums packed into 512-byte blocks. One such
possibility is as follows:
C[D0]
C[D1]
C[D2]
C[D3]
C[D4]
D0
D1
D2
D3
D4
In this scheme, the n checksums are stored together in a sector, fol-
lowed by n data blocks, followed by another checksum sector for the
next n blocks, and so forth. This approach has the beneﬁt of working
on all disks, but can be less efﬁcient; if the ﬁle system, for example, wants
to overwrite block D1, it has to read in the checksum sector containing
C(D1), update C(D1) in it, and then write out the checksum sector and
new data block D1 (thus, one read and two writes). The earlier approach
(of one checksum per sector) just performs a single write.
45.4 Using Checksums
With a checksum layout decided upon, we can now proceed to actu-
ally understand how to use the checksums. When reading a block D, the
client (i.e., ﬁle system or storage controller) also reads its checksum from
disk Cs(D), which we call the stored checksum (hence the subscript Cs).
The client then computes the checksum over the retrieved block D, which
we call the computed checksum Cc(D). At this point, the client com-
pares the stored and computed checksums; if they are equal (i.e., Cs(D)
== Cc(D), the data has likely not been corrupted, and thus can be safely
returned to the user. If they do not match (i.e., Cs(D) != Cc(D)), this im-
plies the data has changed since the time it was stored (since the stored
checksum reﬂects the value of the data at that time). In this case, we have
a corruption, which our checksum has helped us to detect.
Given a corruption, the natural question is what should we do about
it? If the storage system has a redundant copy, the answer is easy: try to
use it instead. If the storage system has no such copy, the likely answer is
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
