DATA INTEGRITY AND PROTECTION
9
You can see from the on-disk format that there is now a fair amount of
redundancy on disk: for each block, the disk number is repeated within
each block, and the offset of the block in question is also kept next to the
block itself. The presence of redundant information should be no sur-
prise, though; redundancy is the key to error detection (in this case) and
recovery (in others). A little extra information, while not strictly needed
with perfect disks, can go a long ways in helping detect problematic situ-
ations should they arise.
45.6 One Last Problem: Lost Writes
Unfortunately, misdirected writes are not the last problem we will
address. Speciﬁcally, some modern storage devices also have an issue
known as a lost write, which occurs when the device informs the up-
per layer that a write has completed but in fact it never is persisted; thus,
what remains is the old contents of the block rather than the updated new
contents.
The obvious question here is: do any of our checksumming strategies
from above (e.g., basic checksums, or physical identity) help to detect
lost writes? Unfortunately, the answer is no: the old block likely has a
matching checksum, and the physical ID used above (disk number and
block offset) will also be correct. Thus our ﬁnal problem:
CRUX: HOW TO HANDLE LOST WRITES
How should a storage system or disk controller detect lost writes?
What additional features are required from the checksum?
There are a number of possible solutions that can help [K+08]. One
classic approach [BS04] is to perform a write verify or read-after-write;
by immediately reading back the data after a write, a system can ensure
that the data indeed reached the disk surface. This approach, however, is
quite slow, doubling the number of I/Os needed to complete a write.
Some systems add a checksum elsewhere in the system to detect lost
writes. For example, Sun’s Zettabyte File System (ZFS) includes a check-
sum in each ﬁle system inode and indirect block for every block included
within a ﬁle. Thus, even if the write to a data block itself is lost, the check-
sum within the inode will not match the old data. Only if the writes to
both the inode and the data are lost simultaneously will such a scheme
fail, an unlikely (but unfortunately, possible!) situation.
45.7 Scrubbing
Given all of this discussion, you might be wondering: when do these
checksums actually get checked? Of course, some amount of checking
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
