10
DATA INTEGRITY AND PROTECTION
occurs when data is accessed by applications, but most data is rarely
accessed, and thus would remain unchecked. Unchecked data is prob-
lematic for a reliable storage system, as bit rot could eventually affect all
copies of a particular piece of data.
To remedy this problem, many systems utilize disk scrubbing of var-
ious forms [K+08]. By periodically reading through every block of the
system, and checking whether checksums are still valid, the disk system
can reduce the chances that all copies of a certain data item become cor-
rupted. Typical systems schedule scans on a nightly or weekly basis.
45.8 Overheads Of Checksumming
Before closing, we now discuss some of the overheads of using check-
sums for data protection. There are two distinct kinds of overheads, as is
common in computer systems: space and time.
Space overheads come in two forms. The ﬁrst is on the disk (or other
storage medium) itself; each stored checksum takes up room on the disk,
which can no longer be used for user data. A typical ratio might be an 8-
byte checksum per 4 KB data block, for a 0.19% on-disk space overhead.
The second type of space overhead comes in the memory of the sys-
tem. When accessing data, there must now be room in memory for the
checksums as well as the data itself. However, if the system simply checks
the checksum and then discards it once done, this overhead is short-lived
and not much of a concern. Only if checksums are kept in memory (for
an added level of protection against memory corruption [Z+13]) will this
small overhead be observable.
While space overheads are small, the time overheads induced by check-
summing can be quite noticeable. Minimally, the CPU must compute the
checksum over each block, both when the data is stored (to determine the
value of the stored checksum) and when it is accessed (to compute the
checksum again and compare it against the stored checksum). One ap-
proach to reducing CPU overheads, employed by many systems that use
checksums (including network stacks), is to combine data copying and
checksumming into one streamlined activity; because the copy is needed
anyhow (e.g., to copy the data from the kernel page cache into a user
buffer), combined copying/checksumming can be quite effective.
Beyond CPU overheads, some checksumming schemes can induce ex-
tra I/O overheads, particularly when checksums are stored distinctly from
the data (thus requiring extra I/Os to access them), and for any extra I/O
needed for background scrubbing. The former can be reduced by design;
the latter can be tuned and thus its impact limited, perhaps by control-
ling when such scrubbing activity takes place. The middle of the night,
when most (not all!) productive workers have gone to bed, may be a
good time to perform such scrubbing activity and increase the robustness
of the storage system.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
