2
SUN’S NETWORK FILE SYSTEM (NFS)
CRUX: HOW TO BUILD A DISTRIBUTED FILE SYSTEM
How do you build a distributed ﬁle system? What are the key aspects
to think about? What is easy to get wrong? What can we learn from
existing systems?
49.1 A Basic Distributed File System
We now will study the architecture of a simpliﬁed distributed ﬁle sys-
tem. A simple client/server distributed ﬁle system has more components
than the ﬁle systems we have studied so far. On the client side, there are
client applications which access ﬁles and directories through the client-
side ﬁle system. A client application issues system calls to the client-side
ﬁle system (such as open(), read(), write(), close(), mkdir(),
etc.) in order to access ﬁles which are stored on the server. Thus, to client
applications, the ﬁle system does not appear to be any different than a lo-
cal (disk-based) ﬁle system, except perhaps for performance; in this way,
distributed ﬁle systems provide transparent access to ﬁles, an obvious
goal; after all, who would want to use a ﬁle system that required a differ-
ent set of APIs or otherwise was a pain to use?
The role of the client-side ﬁle system is to execute the actions needed
to service those system calls. For example, if the client issues a read()
request, the client-side ﬁle system may send a message to the server-side
ﬁle system (or, as it is commonly called, the ﬁle server) to read a partic-
ular block; the ﬁle server will then read the block from disk (or its own
in-memory cache), and send a message back to the client with the re-
quested data. The client-side ﬁle system will then copy the data into the
user buffer supplied to the read() system call and thus the request will
complete. Note that a subsequent read() of the same block on the client
may be cached in client memory or on the client’s disk even; in the best
such case, no network trafﬁc need be generated.
Client Application
Client-side File System
Networking Layer
File Server
Networking Layer
Disks
Figure 49.2: Distributed File System Architecture
From this simple overview, you should get a sense that there are two
important pieces of software in a client/server distributed ﬁle system: the
client-side ﬁle system and the ﬁle server. Together their behavior deter-
mines the behavior of the distributed ﬁle system. Now it’s time to study
one particular system: Sun’s Network File System (NFS).
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
