SUN’S NETWORK FILE SYSTEM (NFS)
11
TIP: PERFECT IS THE ENEMY OF THE GOOD (VOLTAIRE’S LAW)
Even when you design a beautiful system, sometimes all the corner cases
don’t work out exactly as you might like. Take the mkdir example above;
one could redesign mkdir to have different semantics, thus making it
idempotent (think about how you might do so); however, why bother?
The NFS design philosophy covers most of the important cases, and over-
all makes the system design clean and simple with regards to failure.
Thus, accepting that life isn’t perfect and still building the system is a sign
of good engineering. Apparently, this wisdom is attributed to Voltaire,
for saying “... a wise Italian says that the best is the enemy of the good”
[V72], and thus we call it Voltaire’s Law.
49.8 Improving Performance: Client-side Caching
Distributed ﬁle systems are good for a number of reasons, but sending
all read and write requests across the network can lead to a big perfor-
mance problem: the network generally isn’t that fast, especially as com-
pared to local memory or disk. Thus, another problem: how can we im-
prove the performance of a distributed ﬁle system?
The answer, as you might guess from reading the big bold words in
the sub-heading above, is client-side caching. The NFS client-side ﬁle
system caches ﬁle data (and metadata) that it has read from the server in
client memory. Thus, while the ﬁrst access is expensive (i.e., it requires
network communication), subsequent accesses are serviced quite quickly
out of client memory.
The cache also serves as a temporary buffer for writes. When a client
application ﬁrst writes to a ﬁle, the client buffers the data in client mem-
ory (in the same cache as the data it read from the ﬁle server) before writ-
ing the data out to the server. Such write buffering is useful because it de-
couples application write() latency from actual write performance, i.e.,
the application’s call to write() succeeds immediately (and just puts
the data in the client-side ﬁle system’s cache); only later does the data get
written out to the ﬁle server.
Thus, NFS clients cache data and performance is usually great and
we are done, right? Unfortunately, not quite. Adding caching into any
sort of system with multiple client caches introduces a big and interesting
challenge which we will refer to as the cache consistency problem.
49.9 The Cache Consistency Problem
The cache consistency problem is best illustrated with three clients and
a single server. Imagine client C1 reads a ﬁle F, and keeps a copy of the
ﬁle in its local cache. Now imagine a different client, C2, overwrites the
ﬁle F, thus changing its contents; let’s call the new version of the ﬁle F
© 2008–25, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
