12
SUN’S NETWORK FILE SYSTEM (NFS)
C1
cache: F[v1]
C2
cache: F[v2]
C3
cache: empty
Server S
disk: F[v1] at first
      F[v2] eventually
Figure 49.7: The Cache Consistency Problem
(version 2), or F[v2] and the old version F[v1] so we can keep the two
distinct (but of course the ﬁle has the same name, just different contents).
Finally, there is a third client, C3, which has not yet accessed the ﬁle F.
You can probably see the problem that is upcoming (Figure 49.7). In
fact, there are two subproblems. The ﬁrst subproblem is that the client C2
may buffer its writes in its cache for a time before propagating them to the
server; in this case, while F[v2] sits in C2’s memory, any access of F from
another client (say C3) will fetch the old version of the ﬁle (F[v1]). Thus,
by buffering writes at the client, other clients may get stale versions of the
ﬁle, which may be undesirable; indeed, imagine the case where you log
into machine C2, update F, and then log into C3 and try to read the ﬁle,
only to get the old copy! Certainly this could be frustrating. Thus, let us
call this aspect of the cache consistency problem update visibility; when
do updates from one client become visible at other clients?
The second subproblem of cache consistency is a stale cache; in this
case, C2 has ﬁnally ﬂushed its writes to the ﬁle server, and thus the server
has the latest version (F[v2]). However, C1 still has F[v1] in its cache; if a
program running on C1 reads ﬁle F, it will get a stale version (F[v1]) and
not the most recent copy (F[v2]), which is (often) undesirable.
NFSv2 implementations solve these cache consistency problems in two
ways. First, to address update visibility, clients implement what is some-
times called ﬂush-on-close (a.k.a., close-to-open) consistency semantics;
speciﬁcally, when a ﬁle is written to and subsequently closed by a client
application, the client ﬂushes all updates (i.e., dirty pages in the cache)
to the server. With ﬂush-on-close consistency, NFS ensures that a subse-
quent open from another node will see the latest ﬁle version.
Second, to address the stale-cache problem, NFSv2 clients ﬁrst check
to see whether a ﬁle has changed before using its cached contents. Specif-
ically, before using a cached block, the client-side ﬁle system will issue a
GETATTR request to the server to fetch the ﬁle’s attributes. The attributes,
importantly, include information as to when the ﬁle was last modiﬁed on
the server; if the time-of-modiﬁcation is more recent than the time that the
ﬁle was fetched into the client cache, the client invalidates the ﬁle, thus
removing it from the client cache and ensuring that subsequent reads will
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
