SUN’S NETWORK FILE SYSTEM (NFS)
13
go to the server and retrieve the latest version of the ﬁle. If, on the other
hand, the client sees that it has the latest version of the ﬁle, it will go
ahead and use the cached contents, thus increasing performance.
When the original team at Sun implemented this solution to the stale-
cache problem, they realized a new problem; suddenly, the NFS server
was ﬂooded with GETATTR requests. A good engineering principle to
follow is to design for the common case, and to make it work well; here,
although the common case was that a ﬁle was accessed only from a sin-
gle client (perhaps repeatedly), the client always had to send GETATTR
requests to the server to make sure no one else had changed the ﬁle. A
client thus bombards the server, constantly asking “has anyone changed
this ﬁle?”, when most of the time no one had.
To remedy this situation (somewhat), an attribute cache was added
to each client. A client would still validate a ﬁle before accessing it, but
most often would just look in the attribute cache to fetch the attributes.
The attributes for a particular ﬁle were placed in the cache when the ﬁle
was ﬁrst accessed, and then would timeout after a certain amount of time
(say 3 seconds). Thus, during those three seconds, all ﬁle accesses would
determine that it was OK to use the cached ﬁle and thus do so with no
network communication with the server.
49.10 Assessing NFS Cache Consistency
A few ﬁnal words about NFS cache consistency. The ﬂush-on-close be-
havior was added to “make sense”, but introduced a certain performance
problem. Speciﬁcally, if a temporary or short-lived ﬁle was created on a
client and then soon deleted, it would still be forced to the server. A more
ideal implementation might keep such short-lived ﬁles in memory until
they are deleted and thus remove the server interaction entirely, perhaps
increasing performance.
More importantly, the addition of an attribute cache into NFS made
it very hard to understand or reason about exactly what version of a ﬁle
one was getting. Sometimes you would get the latest version; sometimes
you would get an old version simply because your attribute cache hadn’t
yet timed out and thus the client was happy to give you what was in
client memory. Although this was ﬁne most of the time, it would (and
still does!) occasionally lead to odd behavior.
And thus we have described the oddity that is NFS client caching.
It serves as an interesting example where details of an implementation
serve to deﬁne user-observable semantics, instead of the other way around.
49.11 Implications On Server-Side Write Buffering
Our focus so far has been on client caching, and that is where most
of the interesting issues arise. However, NFS servers tend to be well-
equipped machines with a lot of memory too, and thus they have caching
© 2008–25, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
