14
SUN’S NETWORK FILE SYSTEM (NFS)
concerns as well.
When data (and metadata) is read from disk, NFS
servers will keep it in memory, and subsequent reads of said data (and
metadata) will not go to disk, a potential (small) boost in performance.
More intriguing is the case of write buffering. An NFS server abso-
lutely may not return success on a WRITE protocol request until the write
has been forced to stable storage (e.g., to disk or some other persistent
device). While the server can place a copy of the data in its memory, re-
turning success to the client on a WRITE protocol request could result in
incorrect behavior; can you ﬁgure out why?
The answer lies in our assumptions about how clients handle server
failure. Imagine the following sequence of writes as issued by a client:
write(fd, a_buffer, size); // fill 1st block with a’s
write(fd, b_buffer, size); // fill 2nd block with b’s
write(fd, c_buffer, size); // fill 3rd block with c’s
These writes overwrite the three blocks of a ﬁle with a block of a’s,
then b’s, and then c’s. Thus, if the ﬁle initially looked like this:
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy
zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz
We might expect the ﬁnal result after these writes to be like this, with the
x’s, y’s, and z’s, would be overwritten with a’s, b’s, and c’s, respectively.
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb
cccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccc
Now let’s assume for the sake of the example that these three client
writes were issued to the server as three distinct WRITE protocol mes-
sages. Assume the ﬁrst WRITE message is received by the server and
issued to the disk, and the client informed of its success. Now assume
the second write is just buffered in memory, and the server also reports
it success to the client before forcing it to disk; unfortunately, the server
crashes before writing it to disk. The server quickly restarts and receives
the third write request, which also succeeds.
Thus, to the client, all the requests succeeded, but we are surprised
that the ﬁle contents look like this:
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy <--- oops
cccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccc
Yikes! Because the server told the client that the second write was
successful before committing it to disk, an old chunk is left in the ﬁle,
which, depending on the application, might be catastrophic.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
