SUN’S NETWORK FILE SYSTEM (NFS)
15
ASIDE: INNOVATION BREEDS INNOVATION
As with many pioneering technologies, bringing NFS into the world also
required other fundamental innovations to enable its success. Probably
the most lasting is the Virtual File System (VFS) / Virtual Node (vnode)
interface, introduced by Sun to allow different ﬁle systems to be readily
plugged into the operating system [K86].
The VFS layer includes operations that are done to an entire ﬁle system,
such as mounting and unmounting, getting ﬁle-system wide statistics,
and forcing all dirty (not yet written) writes to disk. The vnode layer
consists of all operations one can perform on a ﬁle, such as open, close,
reads, writes, and so forth.
To build a new ﬁle system, one simply has to deﬁne these “methods”; the
framework then handles the rest, connecting system calls to the particular
ﬁle system implementation, performing generic functions common to all
ﬁle systems (e.g., caching) in a centralized manner, and thus providing a
way for multiple ﬁle system implementations to operate simultaneously
within the same system.
Although some of the details have changed, many modern systems have
some form of a VFS/vnode layer, including Linux, BSD variants, macOS,
and even Windows (in the form of the Installable File System). Even if
NFS becomes less relevant to the world, some of the necessary founda-
tions beneath it will live on.
To avoid this problem, NFS servers must commit each write to stable
(persistent) storage before informing the client of success; doing so en-
ables the client to detect server failure during a write, and thus retry until
it ﬁnally succeeds. Doing so ensures we will never end up with ﬁle con-
tents intermingled as in the above example.
The problem that this requirement gives rise to in NFS server im-
plementation is that write performance, without great care, can be the
major performance bottleneck. Indeed, some companies (e.g., Network
Appliance) came into existence with the simple objective of building an
NFS server that can perform writes quickly; one trick they use is to ﬁrst
put writes in a battery-backed memory, thus enabling to quickly reply
to WRITE requests without fear of losing the data and without the cost
of having to write to disk right away; the second trick is to use a ﬁle sys-
tem design speciﬁcally designed to write to disk quickly when one ﬁnally
needs to do so [HLM94, RO91].
49.12 Summary
We have seen the introduction of the NFS distributed ﬁle system. NFS
is centered around the idea of simple and fast recovery in the face of
server failure, and achieves this end through careful protocol design. Idem-
© 2008–25, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
