16
SUN’S NETWORK FILE SYSTEM (NFS)
ASIDE: KEY NFS TERMS
• The key to realizing the main goal of fast and simple crash recovery
in NFS is in the design of a stateless protocol. After a crash, the
server can quickly restart and begin serving requests again; clients
just retry requests until they succeed.
• Making requests idempotent is a central aspect of the NFS protocol.
An operation is idempotent when the effect of performing it multi-
ple times is equivalent to performing it once. In NFS, idempotency
enables client retry without worry, and uniﬁes client lost-message
retransmission and how the client handles server crashes.
• Performance concerns dictate the need for client-side caching and
write buffering, but introduces a cache consistency problem.
• NFS implementations provide an engineering solution to cache
consistency through multiple means: a ﬂush-on-close (close-to-
open) approach ensures that when a ﬁle is closed, its contents are
forced to the server, enabling other clients to observe the updates
to it. An attribute cache reduces the frequency of checking with the
server whether a ﬁle has changed (via GETATTR requests).
• NFS servers must commit writes to persistent media before return-
ing success; otherwise, data loss can arise.
• To support NFS integration into the operating system, Sun intro-
duced the VFS/Vnode interface, enabling multiple ﬁle system im-
plementations to coexist in the same operating system.
potency of operations is essential; because a client can safely replay a
failed operation, it is OK to do so whether or not the server has executed
the request.
We also have seen how the introduction of caching into a multiple-
client, single-server system can complicate things. In particular, the sys-
tem must resolve the cache consistency problem in order to behave rea-
sonably; however, NFS does so in a slightly ad hoc fashion which can
occasionally result in observably weird behavior. Finally, we saw how
server caching can be tricky: writes to the server must be forced to stable
storage before returning success (otherwise data can be lost).
We haven’t talked about other issues which are certainly relevant, no-
tably security. Security in early NFS implementations was remarkably
lax; it was rather easy for any user on a client to masquerade as other
users and thus gain access to virtually any ﬁle. Subsequent integration
with more serious authentication services (e.g., Kerberos [NT94]) have
addressed these obvious deﬁciencies.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
