18
SUN’S NETWORK FILE SYSTEM (NFS)
Homework (Measurement)
In this homework, you’ll do a little bit of NFS trace analysis using real
traces. The source of these traces is Ellard and Seltzer’s effort [ES03].
Make sure to read the related README and download the relevant tar-
ball from the OSTEP homework page (as usual) before starting. One tool
that might be fun to use during this analysis is the awk programming
language [AKW88].
Questions
1. A ﬁrst question for your trace analysis: using the timestamps found
in the ﬁrst column, determine the period of time the traces were
taken from. How long is the period? What day/week/month/year
was it? (does this match the hint given in the ﬁle name?) Hint: Use
the tools head -1 and tail -1 to extract the ﬁrst and last lines of
the ﬁle, and do the calculation.
2. Now, let’s do some operation counts. How many of each type of op-
eration occur in the trace? Sort these by frequency; which operation
is most frequent? Does NFS live up to its reputation?
3. Now let’s look at some particular operations in more detail. For
example, the GETATTR request returns a lot of information about
ﬁles, including which user ID the request is being performed for,
the size of the ﬁle, and so forth. Make a distribution of ﬁle sizes
accessed within the trace; what is the average ﬁle size? Also, how
many different users access ﬁles in the trace? Do a few users dom-
inate trafﬁc, or is it more spread out? What other interesting infor-
mation is found within GETATTR replies?
4. You can also look at requests to a given ﬁle and determine how
ﬁles are being accessed. For example, is a given ﬁle being read or
written sequentially? Or randomly? Look at the details of READ
and WRITE requests/replies to compute the answer.
5. Trafﬁc comes from many machines and goes to one server (in this
trace). Compute a trafﬁc matrix, which shows how many different
clients there are in the trace, and how many requests/replies go to
each. Do a few machines dominate, or is it more evenly balanced?
6. The timing information, and the per-request/reply unique ID, should
allow you to compute the latency for a given request. Compute the
latencies of all request/reply pairs, and plot them as a distribution.
What is the average? Maximum? Minimum?
7. Sometimes requests are retried, as the request or its reply could be
lost or dropped. Can you ﬁnd any evidence of such retrying in the
trace sample?
8. There are many other questions you could answer through more
analysis.
What questions do you think are important?
Suggest
them to us, and perhaps we’ll add them here!
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
