SUN’S NETWORK FILE SYSTEM (NFS)
3
ASIDE: WHY SERVERS CRASH
Before getting into the details of the NFSv2 protocol, you might be
wondering: why do servers crash? Well, as you might guess, there are
plenty of reasons. Servers may simply suffer from a power outage (tem-
porarily); only when power is restored can the machines be restarted.
Servers are often comprised of hundreds of thousands or even millions
of lines of code; thus, they have bugs (even good software has a few
bugs per hundred or thousand lines of code), and thus they eventually
will trigger a bug that will cause them to crash. They also have memory
leaks; even a small memory leak will cause a system to run out of mem-
ory and crash. And, ﬁnally, in distributed systems, there is a network
between the client and the server; if the network acts strangely (for ex-
ample, if it becomes partitioned and clients and servers are working but
cannot communicate), it may appear as if a remote machine has crashed,
but in reality it is just not currently reachable through the network.
49.2 On To NFS
One of the earliest and quite successful distributed systems was devel-
oped by Sun Microsystems, and is known as the Sun Network File Sys-
tem (or NFS) [S86]. In deﬁning NFS, Sun took an unusual approach: in-
stead of building a proprietary and closed system, Sun instead developed
an open protocol which simply speciﬁed the exact message formats that
clients and servers would use to communicate. Different groups could
develop their own NFS servers and thus compete in an NFS marketplace
while preserving interoperability. It worked: today there are many com-
panies that sell NFS servers (including Oracle/Sun, NetApp [HLM94],
EMC, IBM, and others), and the widespread success of NFS is likely at-
tributed to this “open market” approach.
49.3 Focus: Simple And Fast Server Crash Recovery
In this chapter, we will discuss the classic NFS protocol (version 2,
a.k.a. NFSv2), which was the standard for many years; small changes
were made in moving to NFSv3, and larger-scale protocol changes were
made in moving to NFSv4. However, NFSv2 is both wonderful and frus-
trating and thus serves as our focus.
In NFSv2, the main goal in the design of the protocol was simple and
fast server crash recovery. In a multiple-client, single-server environment,
this goal makes a great deal of sense; any minute that the server is down
(or unavailable) makes all the client machines (and their users) unhappy
and unproductive. Thus, as the server goes, so goes the entire system.
© 2008–25, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
