4
SUN’S NETWORK FILE SYSTEM (NFS)
49.4 Key To Fast Crash Recovery: Statelessness
This simple goal is realized in NFSv2 by designing what we refer to
as a stateless protocol. The server, by design, does not keep track of any-
thing about what is happening at each client. For example, the server
does not know which clients are caching which blocks, or which ﬁles are
currently open at each client, or the current ﬁle pointer position for a ﬁle,
etc. Simply put, the server does not track anything about what clients are
doing; rather, the protocol is designed to deliver in each protocol request
all the information that is needed in order to complete the request. If it
doesn’t now, this stateless approach will make more sense as we discuss
the protocol in more detail below.
For an example of a stateful (not stateless) protocol, consider the open()
system call. Given a pathname, open() returns a ﬁle descriptor (an inte-
ger). This descriptor is used on subsequent read() or write() requests
to access various ﬁle blocks, as in this application code (note that proper
error checking of the system calls is omitted for space reasons):
char buffer[MAX];
int fd = open("foo", O_RDONLY); // get descriptor "fd"
read(fd, buffer, MAX);
// read MAX from foo via "fd"
read(fd, buffer, MAX);
// read MAX again
...
read(fd, buffer, MAX);
// read MAX again
close(fd);
// close file
Figure 49.3: Client Code: Reading From A File
Now imagine that the client-side ﬁle system opens the ﬁle by sending
a protocol message to the server saying “open the ﬁle ’foo’ and give me
back a descriptor”. The ﬁle server then opens the ﬁle locally on its side
and sends the descriptor back to the client. On subsequent reads, the
client application uses that descriptor to call the read() system call; the
client-side ﬁle system then passes the descriptor in a message to the ﬁle
server, saying “read some bytes from the ﬁle that is referred to by the
descriptor I am passing you here”.
In this example, the ﬁle descriptor is a piece of shared state between
the client and the server (Ousterhout calls this distributed state [O91]).
Shared state, as we hinted above, complicates crash recovery. Imagine
the server crashes after the ﬁrst read completes, but before the client
has issued the second one. After the server is up and running again,
the client then issues the second read. Unfortunately, the server has no
idea to which ﬁle fd is referring; that information was ephemeral (i.e.,
in memory) and thus lost when the server crashed. To handle this situa-
tion, the client and server would have to engage in some kind of recovery
protocol, where the client would make sure to keep enough information
around in its memory to be able to tell the server what it needs to know
(in this case, that ﬁle descriptor fd refers to ﬁle foo).
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
