SUN’S NETWORK FILE SYSTEM (NFS)
5
It gets even worse when you consider the fact that a stateful server has
to deal with client crashes. Imagine, for example, a client that opens a ﬁle
and then crashes. The open() uses up a ﬁle descriptor on the server; how
can the server know it is OK to close a given ﬁle? In normal operation, a
client would eventually call close() and thus inform the server that the
ﬁle should be closed. However, when a client crashes, the server never
receives a close(), and thus has to notice the client has crashed in order
to close the ﬁle.
For these reasons, the designers of NFS decided to pursue a stateless
approach: each client operation contains all the information needed to
complete the request. No fancy crash recovery is needed; the server just
starts running again, and a client, at worst, might have to retry a request.
49.5 The NFSv2 Protocol
We thus arrive at the NFSv2 protocol deﬁnition. Our problem state-
ment is simple:
THE CRUX: HOW TO DEFINE A STATELESS FILE PROTOCOL
How can we deﬁne the network protocol to enable stateless operation?
Clearly, stateful calls like open() can’t be a part of the discussion (as it
would require the server to track open ﬁles); however, the client appli-
cation will want to call open(), read(), write(), close() and other
standard API calls to access ﬁles and directories. Thus, as a reﬁned ques-
tion, how do we deﬁne the protocol to both be stateless and support the
POSIX ﬁle system API?
One key to understanding the design of the NFS protocol is under-
standing the ﬁle handle. File handles are used to uniquely describe the
ﬁle or directory a particular operation is going to operate upon; thus,
many of the protocol requests include a ﬁle handle.
You can think of a ﬁle handle as having three important components: a
volume identiﬁer, an inode number, and a generation number; together, these
three items comprise a unique identiﬁer for a ﬁle or directory that a client
wishes to access. The volume identiﬁer informs the server which ﬁle sys-
tem the request refers to (an NFS server can export more than one ﬁle
system); the inode number tells the server which ﬁle within that partition
the request is accessing. Finally, the generation number is needed when
reusing an inode number; by incrementing it whenever an inode num-
ber is reused, the server ensures that a client with an old ﬁle handle can’t
accidentally access the newly-allocated ﬁle.
Here is a summary of some of the important pieces of the protocol; the
full protocol is available elsewhere (see Callaghan’s book for an excellent
and detailed overview of NFS [C00]).
© 2008–25, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
