SUN’S NETWORK FILE SYSTEM (NFS)
7
to-date attributes) to the client (or an error if there was a failure). WRITE
is handled similarly, except the data is passed from the client to the server,
and just a success code (and up-to-date attributes) is returned.
One last interesting protocol message is the GETATTR request; given a
ﬁle handle, it simply fetches the attributes for that ﬁle, including the last
modiﬁed time of the ﬁle. We will see why this protocol request is impor-
tant in NFSv2 below when we discuss caching (can you guess why?).
49.6 From Protocol To Distributed File System
Hopefully you are now getting some sense of how this protocol is
turned into a ﬁle system across the client-side ﬁle system and the ﬁle
server. The client-side ﬁle system tracks open ﬁles, and generally trans-
lates application requests into the relevant set of protocol messages. The
server simply responds to protocol messages, each of which contains all
of the information needed to complete the request.
For example, let us consider a simple application which reads a ﬁle.
In the diagram (Figure 49.5), we show what system calls the application
makes, and what the client-side ﬁle system and ﬁle server do in respond-
ing to such calls.
A few comments about the ﬁgure. First, notice how the client tracks all
relevant state for the ﬁle access, including the mapping of the integer ﬁle
descriptor to an NFS ﬁle handle as well as the current ﬁle pointer. This
enables the client to turn each read request (which you may have noticed
do not specify the offset to read from explicitly) into a properly-formatted
read protocol message which tells the server exactly which bytes from
the ﬁle to read. Upon a successful read, the client updates the current
ﬁle position; subsequent reads are issued with the same ﬁle handle but a
different offset.
Second, you may notice where server interactions occur. When the ﬁle
is opened for the ﬁrst time, the client-side ﬁle system sends a LOOKUP
request message. Indeed, if a long pathname must be traversed (e.g.,
/home/remzi/foo.txt), the client would send three LOOKUPs: one
to look up home in the directory /, one to look up remzi in home, and
ﬁnally one to look up foo.txt in remzi.
Third, you may notice how each server request has all the information
needed to complete the request in its entirety. This design point is critical
to be able to gracefully recover from server failure, as we will now discuss
in more detail; it ensures that the server does not need state to be able to
respond to the request.
© 2008–25, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
