SUN’S NETWORK FILE SYSTEM (NFS)
9
TIP: IDEMPOTENCY IS POWERFUL
Idempotency is a useful property when building reliable systems. When
an operation can be issued more than once, it is much easier to handle
failure of the operation; you can just retry it. If an operation is not idem-
potent, life becomes more difﬁcult.
49.7 Handling Server Failure With Idempotent Operations
When a client sends a message to the server, it sometimes does not re-
ceive a reply. There are many possible reasons for this failure to respond.
In some cases, the message may be dropped by the network; networks do
lose messages, and thus either the request or the reply could be lost and
thus the client would never receive a response.
It is also possible that the server has crashed, and thus is not currently
responding to messages. After a bit, the server will be rebooted and start
running again, but in the meanwhile all requests have been lost. In all of
these cases, clients are left with a question: what should they do when
the server does not reply in a timely manner?
In NFSv2, a client handles all of these failures in a single, uniform, and
elegant way: it simply retries the request. Speciﬁcally, after sending the
request, the client sets a timer to go off after a speciﬁed time period. If a
reply is received before the timer goes off, the timer is canceled and all is
well. If, however, the timer goes off before any reply is received, the client
assumes the request has not been processed and resends it. If the server
replies, all is well and the client has neatly handled the problem.
The ability of the client to simply retry the request (regardless of what
caused the failure) is due to an important property of most NFS requests:
they are idempotent. An operation is called idempotent when the effect
of performing the operation multiple times is equivalent to the effect of
performing the operation a single time. For example, if you store a value
to a memory location three times, it is the same as doing so once; thus
“store value to memory” is an idempotent operation. If, however, you in-
crement a counter three times, it results in a different amount than doing
so just once; thus, “increment counter” is not idempotent. More gener-
ally, any operation that just reads data is obviously idempotent; an oper-
ation that updates data must be more carefully considered to determine
if it has this property.
The heart of the design of crash recovery in NFS is the idempotency
of most common operations. LOOKUP and READ requests are trivially
idempotent, as they only read information from the ﬁle server and do not
update it. More interestingly, WRITE requests are also idempotent. If,
for example, a WRITE fails, the client can simply retry it. The WRITE
message contains the data, the count, and (importantly) the exact offset
to write the data to. Thus, it can be repeated with the knowledge that the
outcome of multiple writes is the same as the outcome of a single one.
© 2008–25, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
