2
SCHEDULING: INTRODUCTION
a fully-operational scheduling discipline1.
We will make the following assumptions about the processes, some-
times called jobs, that are running in the system:
1. Each job runs for the same amount of time.
2. All jobs arrive at the same time.
3. Once started, each job runs to completion.
4. All jobs only use the CPU (i.e., they perform no I/O)
5. The run-time of each job is known.
We said many of these assumptions were unrealistic, but just as some
animals are more equal than others in Orwell’s Animal Farm [O45], some
assumptions are more unrealistic than others in this chapter. In particu-
lar, it might bother you that the run-time of each job is known: this would
make the scheduler omniscient, which, although it would be great (prob-
ably), is not likely to happen anytime soon.
7.2 Scheduling Metrics
Beyond making workload assumptions, we also need one more thing
to enable us to compare different scheduling policies: a scheduling met-
ric. A metric is just something that we use to measure something, and
there are a number of different metrics that make sense in scheduling.
For now, however, let us also simplify our life by simply having a sin-
gle metric: turnaround time. The turnaround time of a job is deﬁned
as the time at which the job completes minus the time at which the job
arrived in the system. More formally, the turnaround time Tturnaround is:
Tturnaround = Tcompletion −Tarrival
(7.1)
Because we have assumed that all jobs arrive at the same time, for now
Tarrival = 0 and hence Tturnaround = Tcompletion. This fact will change
as we relax the aforementioned assumptions.
You should note that turnaround time is a performance metric, which
will be our primary focus this chapter. Another metric of interest is fair-
ness, as measured (for example) by Jain’s Fairness Index [J91]. Perfor-
mance and fairness are often at odds in scheduling; a scheduler, for ex-
ample, may optimize performance but at the cost of preventing a few jobs
from running, thus decreasing fairness. This conundrum shows us that
life isn’t always perfect.
7.3 First In, First Out (FIFO)
The most basic algorithm we can implement is known as First In, First
Out (FIFO) scheduling or sometimes First Come, First Served (FCFS).
1Said in the same way you would say “A fully-operational Death Star.”
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
