4
SCHEDULING: INTRODUCTION
TIP: THE PRINCIPLE OF SJF
Shortest Job First represents a general scheduling principle that can be
applied to any system where the perceived turnaround time per customer
(or, in our case, a job) matters. Think of any line you have waited in: if
the establishment in question cares about customer satisfaction, it is likely
they have taken SJF into account. For example, grocery stores commonly
have a “ten-items-or-less” line to ensure that shoppers with only a few
things to purchase don’t get stuck behind the family preparing for some
upcoming nuclear winter.
behind a heavyweight resource consumer. This scheduling scenario might
remind you of a single line at a grocery store and what you feel like when
you see the person in front of you with three carts full of provisions and
a checkbook out; it’s going to be a while2.
So what should we do? How can we develop a better algorithm to
deal with our new reality of jobs that run for different amounts of time?
Think about it ﬁrst; then read on.
7.4 Shortest Job First (SJF)
It turns out that a very simple approach solves this problem; in fact
it is an idea stolen from operations research [C54,PV56] and applied to
scheduling of jobs in computer systems. This new scheduling discipline
is known as Shortest Job First (SJF), and the name should be easy to
remember because it describes the policy quite completely: it runs the
shortest job ﬁrst, then the next shortest, and so on.
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
Time
B
C
A
Figure 7.3: SJF Simple Example
Let’s take our example above but with SJF as our scheduling policy.
Figure 7.3 shows the results of running A, B, and C. Hopefully the dia-
gram makes it clear why SJF performs much better with regards to aver-
age turnaround time. Simply by running B and C before A, SJF reduces
average turnaround from 110 seconds to 50 ( 10+20+120
3
= 50), more than
a factor of two improvement.
2Recommended action in this case: either quickly switch to a different line, or take a long,
deep, and relaxing breath. That’s right, breathe in, breathe out. It will be OK, don’t worry.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
