SCHEDULING: INTRODUCTION
5
ASIDE: PREEMPTIVE SCHEDULERS
In the old days of batch computing, a number of non-preemptive sched-
ulers were developed; such systems would run each job to completion
before considering whether to run a new job. Virtually all modern sched-
ulers are preemptive, and quite willing to stop one process from run-
ning in order to run another. This implies that the scheduler employs the
mechanisms we learned about previously; in particular, the scheduler can
perform a context switch, stopping one running process temporarily and
resuming (or starting) another.
In fact, given our assumptions about jobs all arriving at the same time,
we could prove that SJF is indeed an optimal scheduling algorithm. How-
ever, you are in a systems class, not theory or operations research; no
proofs are allowed.
Thus we arrive upon a good approach to scheduling with SJF, but our
assumptions are still fairly unrealistic. Let’s relax another. In particular,
we can target assumption 2, and now assume that jobs can arrive at any
time instead of all at once. What problems does this lead to?
(Another pause to think ... are you thinking? Come on, you can do it)
Here we can illustrate the problem again with an example. This time,
assume A arrives at t = 0 and needs to run for 100 seconds, whereas B
and C arrive at t = 10 and each need to run for 10 seconds. With pure
SJF, we’d get the schedule seen in Figure 7.4.
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
Time
A
B
C
[B,C arrive]
Figure 7.4: SJF With Late Arrivals From B and C
As you can see from the ﬁgure, even though B and C arrived shortly
after A, they still are forced to wait until A has completed, and thus suffer
the same convoy problem. Average turnaround time for these three jobs
is 103.33 seconds ( 100+(110−10)+(120−10)
3
). What can a scheduler do?
7.5 Shortest Time-to-Completion First (STCF)
To address this concern, we need to relax assumption 3 (that jobs must
run to completion), so let’s do that. We also need some machinery within
the scheduler itself. As you might have guessed, given our previous dis-
cussion about timer interrupts and context switching, the scheduler can
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
