6
SCHEDULING: INTRODUCTION
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
Time
A
B
C
A
[B,C arrive]
Figure 7.5: STCF Simple Example
certainly do something else when B and C arrive: it can preempt job A
and decide to run another job, perhaps continuing A later. SJF by our deﬁ-
nition is a non-preemptive scheduler, and thus suffers from the problems
described above.
Fortunately, there is a scheduler which does exactly that: add preemp-
tion to SJF, known as the Shortest Time-to-Completion First (STCF) or
Preemptive Shortest Job First (PSJF) scheduler [CK68]. Any time a new
job enters the system, the STCF scheduler determines which of the re-
maining jobs (including the new job) has the least time left, and schedules
that one. Thus, in our example, STCF would preempt A and run B and C
to completion; only when they are ﬁnished would A’s remaining time be
scheduled. Figure 7.5 shows an example.
The result is a much-improved average turnaround time: 50 seconds
( (120−0)+(20−10)+(30−10)
3
). And as before, given our new assumptions,
STCF is provably optimal; given that SJF is optimal if all jobs arrive at
the same time, you should probably be able to see the intuition behind
the optimality of STCF.
7.6 A New Metric: Response Time
Thus, if we knew job lengths, and that jobs only used the CPU, and our
only metric was turnaround time, STCF would be a great policy. In fact,
for a number of early batch computing systems, these types of scheduling
algorithms made some sense. However, the introduction of time-shared
machines changed all that. Now users would sit at a terminal and de-
mand interactive performance from the system as well. And thus, a new
metric was born: response time.
We deﬁne response time as the time from when the job arrives in a
system to the ﬁrst time it is scheduled3. More formally:
Tresponse = Tfirstrun −Tarrival
(7.2)
3Some deﬁne it slightly differently, e.g., to also include the time until the job produces
some kind of “response”; our deﬁnition is the best-case version of this, essentially assuming
that the job produces a response instantaneously.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
