8
SCHEDULING: INTRODUCTION
TIP: AMORTIZATION CAN REDUCE COSTS
The general technique of amortization is commonly used in systems
when there is a ﬁxed cost to some operation. By incurring that cost less
often (i.e., by performing the operation fewer times), the total cost to the
system is reduced. For example, if the time slice is set to 10 ms, and the
context-switch cost is 1 ms, roughly 10% of time is spent context switch-
ing and is thus wasted. If we want to amortize this cost, we can increase
the time slice, e.g., to 100 ms. In this case, less than 1% of time is spent
context switching, and thus the cost of time-slicing has been amortized.
they each wish to run for 5 seconds. An SJF scheduler runs each job to
completion before running another (Figure 7.6). In contrast, RR with a
time-slice of 1 second would cycle through the jobs quickly (Figure 7.7).
The average response time of RR is:
0+1+2
3
= 1; for SJF, average re-
sponse time is: 0+5+10
3
= 5.
As you can see, the length of the time slice is critical for RR. The shorter
it is, the better the performance of RR under the response-time metric.
However, making the time slice too short is problematic: suddenly the
cost of context switching will dominate overall performance. Thus, de-
ciding on the length of the time slice presents a trade-off to a system de-
signer, making it long enough to amortize the cost of switching without
making it so long that the system is no longer responsive.
Note that the cost of context switching does not arise solely from the
OS actions of saving and restoring a few registers. When programs run,
they build up a great deal of state in CPU caches, TLBs, branch predictors,
and other on-chip hardware. Switching to another job causes this state
to be ﬂushed and new state relevant to the currently-running job to be
brought in, which may exact a noticeable performance cost [MB91].
RR, with a reasonable time slice, is thus an excellent scheduler if re-
sponse time is our only metric. But what about our old friend turnaround
time? Let’s look at our example above again. A, B, and C, each with run-
ning times of 5 seconds, arrive at the same time, and RR is the scheduler
with a (long) 1-second time slice. We can see from the picture above that
A ﬁnishes at 13, B at 14, and C at 15, for an average of 14. Pretty awful!
It is not surprising, then, that RR is indeed one of the worst policies if
turnaround time is our metric. Intuitively, this should make sense: what
RR is doing is stretching out each job as long as it can, by only running
each job for a short bit before moving to the next. Because turnaround
time only cares about when jobs ﬁnish, RR is nearly pessimal, even worse
than simple FIFO in many cases.
More generally, any policy (such as RR) that is fair, i.e., that evenly di-
vides the CPU among active processes on a small time scale, will perform
poorly on metrics such as turnaround time. Indeed, this is an inherent
trade-off: if you are willing to be unfair, you can run shorter jobs to com-
pletion, but at the cost of response time; if you instead value fairness,
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
