SCHEDULING: INTRODUCTION
9
TIP: OVERLAP ENABLES HIGHER UTILIZATION
When possible, overlap operations to maximize the utilization of sys-
tems. Overlap is useful in many different domains, including when per-
forming disk I/O or sending messages to remote machines; in either case,
starting the operation and then switching to other work is a good idea,
and improves the overall utilization and efﬁciency of the system.
response time is lowered, but at the cost of turnaround time. This type of
trade-off is common in systems; you can’t have your cake and eat it too4.
We have developed two types of schedulers. The ﬁrst type (SJF, STCF)
optimizes turnaround time, but is bad for response time. The second type
(RR) optimizes response time but is bad for turnaround. And we still
have two assumptions which need to be relaxed: assumption 4 (that jobs
do no I/O), and assumption 5 (that the run-time of each job is known).
Let’s tackle those assumptions next.
7.8 Incorporating I/O
First we will relax assumption 4 — of course all programs perform
I/O. Imagine a program that didn’t take any input: it would produce the
same output each time. Imagine one without output: it is the proverbial
tree falling in the forest, with no one to see it; it doesn’t matter that it ran.
A scheduler clearly has a decision to make when a job initiates an I/O
request, because the currently-running job won’t be using the CPU dur-
ing the I/O; it is blocked waiting for I/O completion. If the I/O is sent to
a hard disk drive, the process might be blocked for a few milliseconds or
longer, depending on the current I/O load of the drive. Thus, the sched-
uler should probably schedule another job on the CPU at that time.
The scheduler also has to make a decision when the I/O completes.
When that occurs, an interrupt is raised, and the OS runs and moves
the process that issued the I/O from blocked back to the ready state. Of
course, it could even decide to run the job at that point. How should the
OS treat each job?
To understand this issue better, let us assume we have two jobs, A and
B, which each need 50 ms of CPU time. However, there is one obvious
difference: A runs for 10 ms and then issues an I/O request (assume here
that I/Os each take 10 ms), whereas B simply uses the CPU for 50 ms and
performs no I/O. The scheduler runs A ﬁrst, then B after (Figure 7.8).
Assume we are trying to build a STCF scheduler. How should such a
scheduler account for the fact that A is broken up into 5 10-ms sub-jobs,
4A saying that confuses people, because it should be “You can’t keep your cake and eat it
too” (which is kind of obvious, no?). Amazingly, there is a wikipedia page about this saying;
even more amazingly, it is kind of fun to read [W15]. As they say in Italian, you can’t Avere la
botte piena e la moglie ubriaca.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
