2
FLASH-BASED SSDS
TIP: BE CAREFUL WITH TERMINOLOGY
You may have noticed that some terms we have used many times before
(blocks, pages) are being used within the context of a ﬂash, but in slightly
different ways than before. New terms are not created to make your life
harder (although they may be doing just that), but arise because there is
no central authority where terminology decisions are made. What is a
block to you may be a page to someone else, and vice versa, depending
on the context. Your job is simple: to know the appropriate terms within
each domain, and use them such that people well-versed in the discipline
can understand what you are talking about. It’s one of those times where
the only solution is simple but sometimes painful: use your memory.
Of course, there are many details as to exactly how such bit-level stor-
age operates, down at the level of device physics. While beyond the scope
of this book, you can read more about it on your own [J10].
44.2 From Bits to Banks/Planes
As they say in ancient Greece, storing a single bit (or a few) does not
a storage system make. Hence, ﬂash chips are organized into banks or
planes which consist of a large number of cells.
A bank is accessed in two different sized units: blocks (sometimes
called erase blocks), which are typically of size 128 KB or 256 KB, and
pages, which are a few KB in size (e.g., 4KB). Within each bank there are
a large number of blocks; within each block, there are a large number of
pages. When thinking about ﬂash, you must remember this new termi-
nology, which is different than the blocks we refer to in disks and RAIDs
and the pages we refer to in virtual memory.
Figure 44.1 shows an example of a ﬂash plane with blocks and pages;
there are three blocks, each containing four pages, in this simple exam-
ple. We’ll see below why we distinguish between blocks and pages; it
turns out this distinction is critical for ﬂash operations such as reading
and writing, and even more so for the overall performance of the device.
The most important (and weird) thing you will learn is that to write to
a page within a block, you ﬁrst have to erase the entire block; this tricky
detail makes building a ﬂash-based SSD an interesting and worthwhile
challenge, and the subject of the second-half of the chapter.
0
1
2
Block:
Page:
Content:
00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11
Figure 44.1: A Simple Flash Chip: Pages Within Blocks
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
