12
FLASH-BASED SSDS
ASIDE: A NEW STORAGE API KNOWN AS TRIM
When we think of hard drives, we usually just think of the most ba-
sic interface to read and write them: read and write (there is also usu-
ally some kind of cache ﬂush command, ensuring that writes have actu-
ally been persisted, but sometimes we omit that for simplicity). With
log-structured SSDs, and indeed, any device that keeps a ﬂexible and
changing mapping of logical-to-physical blocks, a new interface is use-
ful, known as the trim operation.
The trim operation takes an address (and possibly a length) and simply
informs the device that the block(s) speciﬁed by the address (and length)
have been deleted; the device thus no longer has to track any informa-
tion about the given address range. For a standard hard drive, trim isn’t
particularly useful, because the drive has a static mapping of block ad-
dresses to speciﬁc platter, track, and sector(s). For a log-structured SSD,
however, it is highly useful to know that a block is no longer needed, as
the SSD can then remove this information from the FTL and later reclaim
the physical space during garbage collection.
Although we sometimes think of interface and implementation as sepa-
rate entities, in this case, we see that the implementation shapes the inter-
face. With complex mappings, knowledge of which blocks are no longer
needed makes for a more effective implementation.
To reduce GC costs, some SSDs overprovision the device [A+08]; by
adding extra ﬂash capacity, cleaning can be delayed and pushed to the
background, perhaps done at a time when the device is less busy. Adding
more capacity also increases internal bandwidth, which can be used for
cleaning and thus not harm perceived bandwidth to the client. Many
modern drives overprovision in this manner, one key to achieving excel-
lent overall performance.
44.9 Mapping Table Size
The second cost of log-structuring is the potential for extremely large
mapping tables, with one entry for each 4-KB page of the device. With a
large 1-TB SSD, for example, a single 4-byte entry per 4-KB page results
in 1 GB of memory needed by the device, just for these mappings! Thus,
this page-level FTL scheme is impractical.
Block-Based Mapping
One approach to reduce the costs of mapping is to only keep a pointer per
block of the device, instead of per page, reducing the amount of mapping
information by a factor of Sizeblock
Sizepage . This block-level FTL is akin to having
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
