FLASH-BASED SSDS
17
44.10 Wear Leveling
Finally, a related background activity that modern FTLs must imple-
ment is wear leveling, as introduced above. The basic idea is simple:
because multiple erase/program cycles will wear out a ﬂash block, the
FTL should try its best to spread that work across all the blocks of the de-
vice evenly. In this manner, all blocks will wear out at roughly the same
time, instead of a few “popular” blocks quickly becoming unusable.
The basic log-structuring approach does a good initial job of spreading
out write load, and garbage collection helps as well. However, sometimes
a block will be ﬁlled with long-lived data that does not get over-written;
in this case, garbage collection will never reclaim the block, and thus it
does not receive its fair share of the write load.
To remedy this problem, the FTL must periodically read all the live
data out of such blocks and re-write it elsewhere, thus making the block
available for writing again. This process of wear leveling increases the
write ampliﬁcation of the SSD, and thus decreases performance as extra
I/O is required to ensure that all blocks wear at roughly the same rate.
Many different algorithms exist in the literature [A+08, M+14]; read more
if you are interested.
44.11 SSD Performance And Cost
Before closing, let’s examine the performance and cost of modern SSDs,
to better understand how they will likely be used in persistent storage
systems. In both cases, we’ll compare to classic hard-disk drives (HDDs),
and highlight the biggest differences between the two.
Performance
Unlike hard disk drives, ﬂash-based SSDs have no mechanical compo-
nents, and in fact are in many ways more similar to DRAM, in that they
are “random access” devices. The biggest difference in performance, as
compared to disk drives, is realized when performing random reads and
writes; while a typical disk drive can only perform a few hundred ran-
dom I/Os per second, SSDs can do much better. Here, we use some data
from modern SSDs to see just how much better SSDs perform; we’re par-
ticularly interested in how well the FTLs hide the performance issues of
the raw chips.
Table 44.4 shows some performance data for three different SSDs and
one top-of-the-line hard drive; the data was taken from a few different
online sources [S13, T15]. The left two columns show random I/O per-
formance, and the right two columns sequential; the ﬁrst three rows show
data for three different SSDs (from Samsung, Seagate, and Intel), and the
last row shows performance for a hard disk drive (or HDD), in this case
a Seagate high-end drive.
We can learn a few interesting facts from the table. First, and most
dramatic, is the difference in random I/O performance between the SSDs
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
