18
FLASH-BASED SSDS
Random
Sequential
Reads
Writes
Reads
Writes
Device
(MB/s)
(MB/s)
(MB/s)
(MB/s)
Samsung 840 Pro SSD
103
287
421
384
Seagate 600 SSD
84
252
424
374
Intel SSD 335 SSD
39
222
344
354
Seagate Savvio 15K.3 HDD
2
2
223
223
Figure 44.4: SSDs And Hard Drives: Performance Comparison
and the lone hard drive. While the SSDs obtain tens or even hundreds of
MB/s in random I/Os, this “high performance” hard drive has a peak of
just a couple MB/s (in fact, we rounded up to get to 2 MB/s). Second, you
can see that in terms of sequential performance, there is much less of a dif-
ference; while the SSDs perform better, a hard drive is still a good choice
if sequential performance is all you need. Third, you can see that SSD ran-
dom read performance is not as good as SSD random write performance.
The reason for such unexpectedly good random-write performance is due
to the log-structured design of many SSDs, which transforms random
writes into sequential ones and improves performance. Finally, because
SSDs exhibit some performance difference between sequential and ran-
dom I/Os, many of the techniques in chapters about how to build ﬁle
systems for hard drives are still applicable to SSDs [AD14b]; although the
magnitude of difference between sequential and random I/Os is smaller,
there is enough of a gap to carefully consider how to design ﬁle systems
to reduce random I/Os.
Cost
As we saw above, the performance of SSDs greatly outstrips modern hard
drives, even when performing sequential I/O. So why haven’t SSDs com-
pletely replaced hard drives as the storage medium of choice? The an-
swer is simple: cost, or more speciﬁcally, cost per unit of capacity. Cur-
rently [A15], an SSD costs something like $150 for a 250-GB drive; such
an SSD costs 60 cents per GB. A typical hard drive costs roughly $50 for
1-TB of storage, which means it costs 5 cents per GB. There is still more
than a 10× difference in cost between these two storage media.
These performance and cost differences dictate how large-scale stor-
age systems are built. If performance is the main concern, SSDs are a
terriﬁc choice, particularly if random read performance is important. If,
on the other hand, you are assembling a large data center and wish to
store massive amounts of information, the large cost difference will drive
you towards hard drives. Of course, a hybrid approach can make sense
– some storage systems are being assembled with both SSDs and hard
drives, using a smaller number of SSDs for more popular “hot” data and
delivering high performance, while storing the rest of the “colder” (less
used) data on hard drives to save on cost. As long as the price gap exists,
hard drives are here to stay.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
