FLASH-BASED SSDS
3
44.3 Basic Flash Operations
Given this ﬂash organization, there are three low-level operations that
a ﬂash chip supports. The read command is used to read a page from the
ﬂash; erase and program are used in tandem to write. The details:
• Read (a page): A client of the ﬂash chip can read any page (e.g.,
2KB or 4KB), simply by specifying the read command and appro-
priate page number to the device. This operation is typically quite
fast, 10s of microseconds or so, regardless of location on the device,
and (more or less) regardless of the location of the previous request
(quite unlike a disk). Being able to access any location uniformly
quickly means the device is a random access device.
• Erase (a block): Before writing to a page within a ﬂash, the nature
of the device requires that you ﬁrst erase the entire block the page
lies within. Erase, importantly, destroys the contents of the block
(by setting each bit to the value 1); therefore, you must be sure that
any data you care about in the block has been copied elsewhere
(to memory, or perhaps to another ﬂash block) before executing the
erase. The erase command is quite expensive, taking a few millisec-
onds to complete. Once ﬁnished, the entire block is reset and each
page is ready to be programmed.
• Program (a page): Once a block has been erased, the program com-
mand can be used to change some of the 1’s within a page to 0’s,
and write the desired contents of a page to the ﬂash. Program-
ming a page is less expensive than erasing a block, but more costly
than reading a page, usually taking around 100s of microseconds
on modern ﬂash chips.
One way to think about ﬂash chips is that each page has a state asso-
ciated with it. Pages start in an INVALID state. By erasing the block that
a page resides within, you set the state of the page (and all pages within
that block) to ERASED, which resets the content of each page in the block
but also (importantly) makes them programmable. When you program a
page, its state changes to VALID, meaning its contents have been set and
can be read. Reads do not affect these states (although you should only
read from pages that have been programmed). Once a page has been pro-
grammed, the only way to change its contents is to erase the entire block
within which the page resides. Here is an example of states transition
after various erase and program operations within a 4-page block:
iiii
Initial: pages in block are invalid (i)
Erase()
→
EEEE
State of pages in block set to erased (E)
Program(0)
→
VEEE
Program page 0; state set to valid (V)
Program(0)
→
error
Cannot re-program page after programming
Program(1)
→
VVEE
Program page 1
Erase()
→
EEEE
Contents erased; all pages programmable
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
