FLASH-BASED SSDS
23
Homework (Simulation)
This section introduces ssd.py, a simple SSD simulator you can use
to understand better how SSDs work. Read the README for details on
how to run the simulator. It is a long README, so boil a cup of tea (caf-
feinated likely necessary), put on your reading glasses, let the cat curl up
on your lap1, and get to work.
Questions
1. The homework will mostly focus on the log-structured SSD, which
is simulated with the “-T log” ﬂag. We’ll use the other types of
SSDs for comparison. First, run with ﬂags -T log -s 1 -n 10
-q. Can you ﬁgure out which operations took place? Use -c to
check your answers (or just use -C instead of -q -c). Use different
values of -s to generate different random workloads.
2. Now just show the commands and see if you can ﬁgure out the
intermediate states of the Flash. Run with ﬂags -T log -s 2 -n
10 -C to show each command. Now, determine the state of the
Flash between each command; use -F to show the states and see if
you were right. Use different random seeds to test your burgeoning
expertise.
3. Let’s make this problem ever so slightly more interesting by adding
the -r 20 ﬂag. What differences does this cause in the commands?
Use -c again to check your answers.
4. Performance is determined by the number of erases, programs, and
reads (we assume here that trims are free). Run the same workload
again as above, but without showing any intermediate states (e.g.,
-T log -s 1 -n 10). Can you estimate how long this workload
will take to complete? (default erase time is 1000 microseconds,
program time is 40, and read time is 10) Use the -S ﬂag to check
your answer. You can also change the erase, program, and read
times with the -E, -W, -R ﬂags.
5. Now, compare performance of the log-structured approach and the
(very bad) direct approach (-T direct instead of -T log). First,
estimate how you think the direct approach will perform, then check
your answer with the -S ﬂag. In general, how much better will the
log-structured approach perform than the direct one?
6. Let us next explore the behavior of the garbage collector. To do
so, we have to set the high (-G) and low (-g) watermarks appro-
priately. First, let’s observe what happens when you run a larger
workload to the log-structured SSD but without any garbage col-
lection. To do this, run with ﬂags -T log -n 1000 (the high wa-
1Now you might complain, “But I’m a dog person!” To this, we say, too bad! Get a cat,
put it on your lap, and do the homework! How else will you learn, if you can’t even follow
the most basic of instructions?
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
