6
FLASH-BASED SSDS
TIP: THE IMPORTANCE OF BACKWARDS COMPATIBILITY
Backwards compatibility is always a concern in layered systems.
By
deﬁning a stable interface between two systems, one enables innovation
on each side of the interface while ensuring continued interoperability.
Such an approach has been quite successful in many domains: operating
systems have relatively stable APIs for applications, disks provide the
same block-based interface to ﬁle systems, and each layer in the IP net-
working stack provides a ﬁxed unchanging interface to the layer above.
Not surprisingly, there can be a downside to such rigidity, as interfaces
deﬁned in one generation may not be appropriate in the next. In some
cases, it may be useful to think about redesigning the entire system en-
tirely. An excellent example is found in the Sun ZFS ﬁle system [B07];
by reconsidering the interaction of ﬁle systems and RAID, the creators of
ZFS envisioned (and then realized) a more effective integrated whole.
44.5 From Raw Flash to Flash-Based SSDs
Given our basic understanding of ﬂash chips, we now face our next
task: how to turn a basic set of ﬂash chips into something that looks like
a typical storage device. The standard storage interface is a simple block-
based one, where blocks (sectors) of size 512 bytes (or larger) can be read
or written, given a block address. The task of the ﬂash-based SSD is to
provide that standard block interface atop the raw ﬂash chips inside it.
Internally, an SSD consists of some number of ﬂash chips (for persis-
tent storage). An SSD also contains some amount of volatile (i.e., non-
persistent) memory (e.g., SRAM); such memory is useful for caching and
buffering of data as well as for mapping tables, which we’ll learn about
below. Finally, an SSD contains control logic to orchestrate device opera-
tion. See Agrawal et. al for details [A+08]; a simpliﬁed block diagram is
seen in Figure 44.3 (page 7).
One of the essential functions of this control logic is to satisfy client
reads and writes, turning them into internal ﬂash operations as need be.
The ﬂash translation layer, or FTL, provides exactly this functionality.
The FTL takes read and write requests on logical blocks (that comprise the
device interface) and turns them into low-level read, erase, and program
commands on the underlying physical blocks and physical pages (that com-
prise the actual ﬂash device). The FTL should accomplish this task with
the goal of delivering excellent performance and high reliability.
Excellent performance, as we’ll see, can be realized through a com-
bination of techniques. One key will be to utilize multiple ﬂash chips
in parallel; although we won’t discuss this technique much further, suf-
ﬁce it to say that all modern SSDs use multiple chips internally to obtain
higher performance. Another performance goal will be to reduce write
ampliﬁcation, which is deﬁned as the total write trafﬁc (in bytes) issued
to the ﬂash chips by the FTL divided by the total write trafﬁc (in bytes) is-
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
