FLASH-BASED SSDS
7
Interface Logic
Flash
Controller
Memory
Flash
Flash
Flash
Flash
Flash
Flash
Figure 44.3: A Flash-based SSD: Logical Diagram
sued by the client to the SSD. As we’ll see below, naive approaches to FTL
construction will lead to high write ampliﬁcation and low performance.
High reliability will be achieved through the combination of a few dif-
ferent approaches. One main concern, as discussed above, is wear out. If
a single block is erased and programmed too often, it will become unus-
able; as a result, the FTL should try to spread writes across the blocks of
the ﬂash as evenly as possible, ensuring that all of the blocks of the device
wear out at roughly the same time; doing so is called wear leveling and
is an essential part of any modern FTL.
Another reliability concern is program disturbance. To minimize such
disturbance, FTLs will commonly program pages within an erased block
in order, from low page to high page. This sequential-programming ap-
proach minimizes disturbance and is widely utilized.
44.6 FTL Organization: A Bad Approach
The simplest organization of an FTL would be something we call di-
rect mapped. In this approach, a read to logical page N is mapped di-
rectly to a read of physical page N. A write to logical page N is more
complicated; the FTL ﬁrst has to read in the entire block that page N is
contained within; it then has to erase the block; ﬁnally, the FTL programs
the old pages as well as the new one.
As you can probably guess, the direct-mapped FTL has many prob-
lems, both in terms of performance as well as reliability. The performance
problems come on each write: the device has to read in the entire block
(costly), erase it (quite costly), and then program it (costly). The end re-
sult is severe write ampliﬁcation (proportional to the number of pages
in a block) and as a result, terrible write performance, even slower than
typical hard drives with their mechanical seeks and rotational delays.
Even worse is the reliability of this approach. If ﬁle system metadata
or user ﬁle data is repeatedly overwritten, the same block is erased and
programmed, over and over, rapidly wearing it out and potentially los-
ing data. The direct mapped approach simply gives too much control
over wear out to the client workload; if the workload does not spread
write load evenly across its logical blocks, the underlying physical blocks
containing popular data will quickly wear out. For both reliability and
performance reasons, a direct-mapped FTL is a bad idea.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
