2
LOCALITY AND THE FAST FILE SYSTEM
Worse, the ﬁle system would end up getting quite fragmented, as the
free space was not carefully managed. The free list would end up point-
ing to a bunch of blocks spread across the disk, and as ﬁles got allocated,
they would simply take the next free block. The result was that a logi-
cally contiguous ﬁle would be accessed by going back and forth across
the disk, thus reducing performance dramatically.
For example, imagine the following data block region, which contains
four ﬁles (A, B, C, and D), each of size 2 blocks:
A1
A2
B1
B2
C1
C2
D1
D2
If B and D are deleted, the resulting layout is:
A1
A2
C1
C2
As you can see, the free space is fragmented into two chunks of two
blocks, instead of one nice contiguous chunk of four. Let’s say you now
wish to allocate a ﬁle E, of size four blocks:
A1
A2
E1
E2
C1
C2
E3
E4
You can see what happens: E gets spread across the disk, and as a
result, when accessing E, you don’t get peak (sequential) performance
from the disk. Rather, you ﬁrst read E1 and E2, then seek, then read E3
and E4. This fragmentation problem happened all the time in the old
UNIX ﬁle system, and it hurt performance. A side note: this problem is
exactly what disk defragmentation tools help with; they reorganize on-
disk data to place ﬁles contiguously and make free space for one or a few
contiguous regions, moving data around and then rewriting inodes and
such to reﬂect the changes.
One other problem: the original block size was too small (512 bytes).
Thus, transferring data from the disk was inherently inefﬁcient. Smaller
blocks were good because they minimized internal fragmentation (waste
within the block), but bad for transfer as each block might require a posi-
tioning overhead to reach it. Thus, the problem:
THE CRUX:
HOW TO ORGANIZE ON-DISK DATA TO IMPROVE PERFORMANCE
How can we organize ﬁle system data structures so as to improve per-
formance? What types of allocation policies do we need on top of those
data structures? How do we make the ﬁle system “disk aware”?
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
