12
LOCALITY AND THE FAST FILE SYSTEM
TIP: MAKE THE SYSTEM USABLE
Probably the most basic lesson from FFS is that not only did it intro-
duce the conceptually good idea of disk-aware layout, but it also added
a number of features that simply made the system more usable. Long ﬁle
names, symbolic links, and a rename operation that worked atomically
all improved the utility of a system; while hard to write a research pa-
per about (imagine trying to read a 14-pager about “The Symbolic Link:
Hard Link’s Long Lost Cousin”), such small features made FFS more use-
ful and thus likely increased its chances for adoption. Making a system
usable is often as or more important than its deep technical innovations.
just return the desired data from its cache. File systems thus no longer
have to worry about these incredibly low-level details. Abstraction and
higher-level interfaces can be a good thing, when designed properly.
Some other usability improvements were added as well. FFS was one
of the ﬁrst ﬁle systems to allow for long ﬁle names, thus enabling more
expressive names in the ﬁle system instead of the traditional ﬁxed-size
approach (e.g., 8 characters).
Further, a new concept was introduced
called a symbolic link. As discussed in a previous chapter [AD18b] ,
hard links are limited in that they both could not point to directories (for
fear of introducing loops in the ﬁle system hierarchy) and that they can
only point to ﬁles within the same volume (i.e., the inode number must
still be meaningful). Symbolic links allow the user to create an “alias” to
any other ﬁle or directory on a system and thus are much more ﬂexible.
FFS also introduced an atomic rename() operation for renaming ﬁles.
Usability improvements, beyond the basic technology, also likely gained
FFS a stronger user base.
41.8 Summary
The introduction of FFS was a watershed moment in ﬁle system his-
tory, as it made clear that the problem of ﬁle management was one of the
most interesting issues within an operating system, and showed how one
might begin to deal with that most important of devices, the hard disk.
Since that time, hundreds of new ﬁle systems have developed, but still
today many ﬁle systems take cues from FFS (e.g., Linux ext2 and ext3 are
obvious intellectual descendants). Certainly all modern systems account
for the main lesson of FFS: treat the disk like it’s a disk.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
