14
LOCALITY AND THE FAST FILE SYSTEM
Homework (Simulation)
This section introduces ffs.py, a simple FFS simulator you can use
to understand better how FFS-based ﬁle and directory allocation work.
See the README for details on how to run the simulator.
Questions
1. Examine the ﬁle in.largefile, and then run the simulator with ﬂag -f
in.largefile and -L 4. The latter sets the large-ﬁle exception to 4 blocks.
What will the resulting allocation look like? Run with -c to check.
2. Now run with -L 30. What do you expect to see? Once again, turn on -c
to see if you were right. You can also use -S to see exactly which blocks
were allocated to the ﬁle /a.
3. Now we will compute some statistics about the ﬁle. The ﬁrst is something
we call ﬁlespan, which is the max distance between any two data blocks of
the ﬁle or between the inode and any data block. Calculate the ﬁlespan of
/a. Run ffs.py -f in.largefile -L 4 -T -c to see what it is. Do
the same with -L 100. What difference do you expect in ﬁlespan as the
large-ﬁle exception parameter changes from low values to high values?
4. Now let’s look at a new input ﬁle, in.manyfiles. How do you think the
FFS policy will lay these ﬁles out across groups? (you can run with -v to
see what ﬁles and directories are created, or just cat in.manyfiles). Run
the simulator with -c to see if you were right.
5. A metric to evaluate FFS is called dirspan. This metric calculates the spread
of ﬁles within a particular directory, speciﬁcally the max distance between
the inodes and data blocks of all ﬁles in the directory and the inode and data
block of the directory itself. Run with in.manyfiles and the -T ﬂag, and
calculate the dirspan of the three directories. Run with -c to check. How
good of a job does FFS do in minimizing dirspan?
6. Now change the size of the inode table per group to 5 (-i 5). How do you
think this will change the layout of the ﬁles? Run with -c to see if you were
right. How does it affect the dirspan?
7. Which group should FFS place inode of a new directory in? The default
(simulator) policy looks for the group with the most free inodes. A different
policy looks for a set of groups with the most free inodes. For example, if
you run with -A 2, when allocating a new directory, the simulator will look
at groups in pairs and pick the best pair for the allocation. Run ./ffs.py
-f in.manyfiles -i 5 -A 2 -c to see how allocation changes with
this strategy. How does it affect dirspan? Why might this policy be good?
8. One last policy change we will explore relates to ﬁle fragmentation. Run
./ffs.py -f in.fragmented -v and see if you can predict how the
ﬁles that remain are allocated. Run with -c to conﬁrm your answer. What
is interesting about the data layout of ﬁle /i? Why is it problematic?
9. A new policy, which we call contiguous allocation (-C), tries to ensure that
each ﬁle is allocated contiguously. Speciﬁcally, with -C n, the ﬁle system
tries to ensure that n contiguous blocks are free within a group before al-
locating a block. Run ./ffs.py -f in.fragmented -v -C 2 -c to
see the difference. How does layout change as the parameter passed to -C
increases? Finally, how does -C affect ﬁlespan and dirspan?
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
