4
LOCALITY AND THE FAST FILE SYSTEM
systems (such as Linux ext2, ext3, and ext4) instead organize the drive
into block groups, each of which is just a consecutive portion of the disk’s
address space. The picture below illustrates an example where every 8
blocks are organized into a different block group (note that real groups
would consist of many more blocks):
Group 0
Group 1
Group 2
Whether you call them cylinder groups or block groups, these groups
are the central mechanism that FFS uses to improve performance. Crit-
ically, by placing two ﬁles within the same group, FFS can ensure that
accessing one after the other will not result in long seeks across the disk.
To use these groups to store ﬁles and directories, FFS needs to have the
ability to place ﬁles and directories into a group, and track all necessary
information about them therein. To do so, FFS includes all the structures
you might expect a ﬁle system to have within each group, e.g., space for
inodes, data blocks, and some structures to track whether each of those
are allocated or free. Here is a depiction of what FFS keeps within a single
cylinder group:
S ib db
Inodes
Data
Let’s now examine the components of this single cylinder group in
more detail. FFS keeps a copy of the super block (S) in each group for
reliability reasons. The super block is needed to mount the ﬁle system;
by keeping multiple copies, if one copy becomes corrupt, you can still
mount and access the ﬁle system by using a working replica.
Within each group, FFS needs to track whether the inodes and data
blocks of the group are allocated. A per-group inode bitmap (ib) and
data bitmap (db) serve this role for inodes and data blocks in each group.
Bitmaps are an excellent way to manage free space in a ﬁle system be-
cause it is easy to ﬁnd a large chunk of free space and allocate it to a ﬁle,
perhaps avoiding some of the fragmentation problems of the free list in
the old ﬁle system.
Finally, the inode and data block regions are just like those in the pre-
vious very-simple ﬁle system (VSFS). Most of each cylinder group, as
usual, is comprised of data blocks.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
