LOCALITY AND THE FAST FILE SYSTEM
5
ASIDE: FFS FILE CREATION
As an example, think about what data structures must be updated when
a ﬁle is created; assume, for this example, that the user creates a new ﬁle
/foo/bar.txt and that the ﬁle is one block long (4KB). The ﬁle is new,
and thus needs a new inode; thus, both the inode bitmap and the newly-
allocated inode will be written to disk. The ﬁle also has data in it and
thus it too must be allocated; the data bitmap and a data block will thus
(eventually) be written to disk. Hence, at least four writes to the current
cylinder group will take place (recall that these writes may be buffered
in memory for a while before they take place). But this is not all! In
particular, when creating a new ﬁle, you must also place the ﬁle in the
ﬁle-system hierarchy, i.e., the directory must be updated. Speciﬁcally, the
parent directory foo must be updated to add the entry for bar.txt; this
update may ﬁt in an existing data block of foo or require a new block to
be allocated (with associated data bitmap). The inode of foo must also
be updated, both to reﬂect the new length of the directory as well as to
update time ﬁelds (such as last-modiﬁed-time). Overall, it is a lot of work
just to create a new ﬁle! Perhaps next time you do so, you should be more
thankful, or at least surprised that it all works so well.
41.4 Policies: How To Allocate Files and Directories
With this group structure in place, FFS now has to decide how to place
ﬁles and directories and associated metadata on disk to improve perfor-
mance. The basic mantra is simple: keep related stuff together (and its corol-
lary, keep unrelated stuff far apart).
Thus, to obey the mantra, FFS has to decide what is “related” and
place it within the same block group; conversely, unrelated items should
be placed into different block groups. To achieve this end, FFS makes use
of a few simple placement heuristics.
The ﬁrst is the placement of directories. FFS employs a simple ap-
proach: ﬁnd the cylinder group with a low number of allocated direc-
tories (to balance directories across groups) and a high number of free
inodes (to subsequently be able to allocate a bunch of ﬁles), and put the
directory data and inode in that group. Of course, other heuristics could
be used here (e.g., taking into account the number of free data blocks).
For ﬁles, FFS does two things. First, it makes sure (in the general case)
to allocate the data blocks of a ﬁle in the same group as its inode, thus
preventing long seeks between inode and data (as in the old ﬁle system).
Second, it places all ﬁles that are in the same directory in the cylinder
group of the directory they are in. Thus, if a user creates four ﬁles, /a/b,
/a/c, /a/d, and /b/f, FFS would try to place the ﬁrst three near one
another (same group) and the fourth far away (in some other group).
Let’s look at an example of such an allocation. In the example, as-
sume that there are only 10 inodes and 10 data blocks in each group (both
© 2008–26, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
