8
LOCALITY AND THE FAST FILE SYSTEM
ously, and that nearly 40% of ﬁle accesses were to either the same ﬁle or
to one in the same directory (i.e., a difference of zero or one). Thus, the
FFS locality assumption seems to make sense (at least for these traces).
Interestingly, another 25% or so of ﬁle accesses were to ﬁles that had a
distance of two. This type of locality occurs when the user has structured
a set of related directories in a multi-level fashion and consistently jumps
between them. For example, if a user has a src directory and builds
object ﬁles (.o ﬁles) into an obj directory, and both of these directories
are sub-directories of a main proj directory, a common access pattern
will be proj/src/foo.c followed by proj/obj/foo.o. The distance
between these two accesses is two, as proj is the common ancestor. FFS
does not capture this type of locality in its policies, and thus more seeking
will occur between such accesses.
For comparison, the graph also shows locality for a “Random” trace.
The random trace was generated by selecting ﬁles from within an existing
SEER trace in random order, and calculating the distance metric between
these randomly-ordered accesses. As you can see, there is less namespace
locality in the random traces, as expected. However, because eventually
every ﬁle shares a common ancestor (e.g., the root), there is some locality,
and thus random is useful as a comparison point.
41.6 The Large-File Exception
In FFS, there is one important exception to the general policy of ﬁle
placement, and it arises for large ﬁles. Without a different rule, a large
ﬁle would entirely ﬁll the block group it is ﬁrst placed within (and maybe
others). Filling a block group in this manner is undesirable, as it prevents
subsequent “related” ﬁles from being placed within this block group, and
thus may hurt ﬁle-access locality.
Thus, for large ﬁles, FFS does the following. After some number of
blocks are allocated into the ﬁrst block group (e.g., 12 blocks, or the num-
ber of direct pointers available within an inode), FFS places the next “large”
chunk of the ﬁle (e.g., those pointed to by the ﬁrst indirect block) in an-
other block group (perhaps chosen for its low utilization). Then, the next
chunk of the ﬁle is placed in yet another different block group, and so on.
Let’s look at some diagrams to understand this policy better. Without
the large-ﬁle exception, a single large ﬁle would place all of its blocks into
one part of the disk. We investigate a small example of a ﬁle (/a) with 30
blocks in an FFS conﬁgured with 10 inodes and 40 data blocks per group.
Here is the depiction of FFS without the large-ﬁle exception:
group inodes
data
0
/a-------- /aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa a---------
1
---------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ----------
2
---------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ----------
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
