38
Redundant Arrays of Inexpensive Disks
(RAIDs)
When we use a disk, we sometimes wish it to be faster; I/O operations
are slow and thus can be the bottleneck for the entire system. When we
use a disk, we sometimes wish it to be larger; more and more data is being
put online and thus our disks are getting fuller and fuller. When we use
a disk, we sometimes wish for it to be more reliable; when a disk fails, if
our data isn’t backed up, all that valuable data is gone.
CRUX: HOW TO MAKE A LARGE, FAST, RELIABLE DISK
How can we make a large, fast, and reliable storage system? What are
the key techniques? What are trade-offs between different approaches?
In this chapter, we introduce the Redundant Array of Inexpensive
Disks better known as RAID [P+88], a technique to use multiple disks in
concert to build a faster, bigger, and more reliable disk system. The term
was introduced in the late 1980s by a group of researchers at U.C. Berke-
ley (led by Professors David Patterson and Randy Katz and then student
Garth Gibson); it was around this time that many different researchers si-
multaneously arrived upon the basic idea of using multiple disks to build
a better storage system [BG88, K86,K88,PB86,SG86].
Externally, a RAID looks like a disk: a group of blocks one can read
or write. Internally, the RAID is a complex beast, consisting of multiple
disks, memory (both volatile and non-), and one or more processors to
manage the system. A hardware RAID is very much like a computer
system, specialized for the task of managing a group of disks.
RAIDs offer a number of advantages over a single disk. One advan-
tage is performance. Using multiple disks in parallel can greatly speed
up I/O times. Another beneﬁt is capacity. Large data sets demand large
disks. Finally, RAIDs can improve reliability; spreading data across mul-
tiple disks (without RAID techniques) makes the data vulnerable to the
loss of a single disk; with some form of redundancy, RAIDs can tolerate
the loss of a disk and keep operating as if nothing were wrong.
1
