2
REDUNDANT ARRAYS OF INEXPENSIVE DISKS (RAIDS)
TIP: TRANSPARENCY ENABLES DEPLOYMENT
When considering how to add new functionality to a system, one should
always consider whether such functionality can be added transparently,
in a way that demands no changes to the rest of the system. Requiring a
complete rewrite of the existing software (or radical hardware changes)
lessens the chance of impact of an idea. RAID is a perfect example, and
certainly its transparency contributed to its success; administrators could
install a SCSI-based RAID storage array instead of a SCSI disk, and the
rest of the system (host computer, OS, etc.) did not have to change one bit
to start using it. By solving this problem of deployment, RAID was made
more successful from day one.
Amazingly, RAIDs provide these advantages transparently to systems
that use them, i.e., a RAID just looks like a big disk to the host system. The
beauty of transparency, of course, is that it enables one to simply replace
a disk with a RAID and not change a single line of software; the operat-
ing system and client applications continue to operate without modiﬁca-
tion. In this manner, transparency greatly improves the deployability of
RAID, enabling users and administrators to put a RAID to use without
worries of software compatibility.
We now discuss some of the important aspects of RAIDs. We begin
with the interface, fault model, and then discuss how one can evaluate a
RAID design along three important axes: capacity, reliability, and perfor-
mance. We then discuss a number of other issues that are important to
RAID design and implementation.
38.1 Interface And RAID Internals
To a ﬁle system above, a RAID looks like a big, (hopefully) fast, and
(hopefully) reliable disk. Just as with a single disk, it presents itself as
a linear array of blocks, each of which can be read or written by the ﬁle
system (or other client).
When a ﬁle system issues a logical I/O request to the RAID, the RAID
internally must calculate which disk (or disks) to access in order to com-
plete the request, and then issue one or more physical I/Os to do so. The
exact nature of these physical I/Os depends on the RAID level, as we will
discuss in detail below. However, as a simple example, consider a RAID
that keeps two copies of each block (each one on a separate disk); when
writing to such a mirrored RAID system, the RAID will have to perform
two physical I/Os for every one logical I/O it is issued.
A RAID system is often built as a separate hardware box, with a stan-
dard connection (e.g., SCSI, or SATA) to a host.
Internally, however,
RAIDs are fairly complex, consisting of a microcontroller that runs ﬁrmware
to direct the operation of the RAID, volatile memory such as DRAM
to buffer data blocks as they are read and written, and in some cases,
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
