12
REDUNDANT ARRAYS OF INEXPENSIVE DISKS (RAIDS)
Disk 0
Disk 1
Disk 2
Disk 3
Disk 4
0
1
2
3
P0
4
5
6
7
P1
8
9
10
11
P2
12
13
14
15
P3
Figure 38.5: Full-stripe Writes In RAID-4
Finally, there is performance. This time, let us start by analyzing steady-
state throughput. Sequential read performance can utilize all of the disks
except for the parity disk, and thus deliver a peak effective bandwidth of
(N −1) · S MB/s (an easy case).
To understand the performance of sequential writes, we must ﬁrst un-
derstand how they are done. When writing a big chunk of data to disk,
RAID-4 can perform a simple optimization known as a full-stripe write.
For example, imagine the case where the blocks 0, 1, 2, and 3 have been
sent to the RAID as part of a write request (Figure 38.5).
In this case, the RAID can simply calculate the new value of P0 (by
performing an XOR across the blocks 0, 1, 2, and 3) and then write all of
the blocks (including the parity block) to the ﬁve disks above in parallel
(highlighted in gray in the ﬁgure). Thus, full-stripe writes are the most
efﬁcient way for RAID-4 to write to disk.
Once we understand the full-stripe write, calculating the performance
of sequential writes on RAID-4 is easy; the effective bandwidth is also
(N −1)·S MB/s. Even though the parity disk is constantly in use during
the operation, the client does not gain performance advantage from it.
Now let us analyze the performance of random reads. As you can also
see from the ﬁgure above, a set of 1-block random reads will be spread
across the data disks of the system but not the parity disk. Thus, the
effective performance is: (N −1) · R MB/s.
Random writes, which we have saved for last, present the most in-
teresting case for RAID-4. Imagine we wish to overwrite block 1 in the
example above. We could just go ahead and overwrite it, but that would
leave us with a problem: the parity block P0 would no longer accurately
reﬂect the correct parity value of the stripe; in this example, P0 must also
be updated. How can we update it both correctly and efﬁciently?
It turns out there are two methods. The ﬁrst, known as additive parity,
requires us to do the following. To compute the value of the new parity
block, read in all of the other data blocks in the stripe in parallel (in the
example, blocks 0, 2, and 3) and XOR those with the new block (1). The
result is your new parity block. To complete the write, you can then write
the new data and new parity to their respective disks, also in parallel.
The problem with this technique is that it scales with the number of
disks, and thus in larger RAIDs requires a high number of reads to com-
pute parity. Thus, the subtractive parity method.
For example, imagine this string of bits (4 data bits, one parity):
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
