14
REDUNDANT ARRAYS OF INEXPENSIVE DISKS (RAIDS)
parallel, the parity disk prevents any parallelism from materializing; all
writes to the system will be serialized because of the parity disk. Because
the parity disk has to perform two I/Os (one read, one write) per logical
I/O, we can compute the performance of small random writes in RAID-4
by computing the parity disk’s performance on those two I/Os, and thus
we achieve (R/2) MB/s. RAID-4 throughput under random small writes
is terrible; it does not improve as you add disks to the system.
We conclude by analyzing I/O latency in RAID-4. As you now know,
a single read (assuming no failure) is just mapped to a single disk, and
thus its latency is equivalent to the latency of a single disk request. The
latency of a single write requires two reads and then two writes; the reads
can happen in parallel, as can the writes, and thus total latency is about
twice that of a single disk (with some differences because we have to wait
for both reads to complete and thus get the worst-case positioning time,
but then the updates don’t incur seek cost and thus may be a better-than-
average positioning cost).
38.7 RAID Level 5: Rotating Parity
To address the small-write problem (at least, partially), Patterson, Gib-
son, and Katz introduced RAID-5. RAID-5 works almost identically to
RAID-4, except that it rotates the parity block across drives (Figure 38.7).
Disk 0
Disk 1
Disk 2
Disk 3
Disk 4
0
1
2
3
P0
5
6
7
P1
4
10
11
P2
8
9
15
P3
12
13
14
P4
16
17
18
19
Figure 38.7: RAID-5 With Rotated Parity
As you can see, the parity block for each stripe is now rotated across
the disks, in order to remove the parity-disk bottleneck for RAID-4.
RAID-5 Analysis
Much of the analysis for RAID-5 is identical to RAID-4. For example, the
effective capacity and failure tolerance of the two levels are identical. So
are sequential read and write performance. The latency of a single request
(whether a read or a write) is also the same as RAID-4.
Random read performance is a little better, because we can now utilize
all disks. Finally, random write performance improves noticeably over
RAID-4, as it allows for parallelism across requests. Imagine a write to
block 1 and a write to block 10; this will turn into requests to disk 1 and
disk 4 (for block 1 and its parity) and requests to disk 0 and disk 2 (for
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
