16
REDUNDANT ARRAYS OF INEXPENSIVE DISKS (RAIDS)
However, the comparison in Figure 38.8 does capture the essential dif-
ferences, and is useful for understanding tradeoffs across RAID levels.
For the latency analysis, we simply use T to represent the time that a
request to a single disk would take.
To conclude, if you strictly want performance and do not care about
reliability, striping is obviously best. If, however, you want random I/O
performance and reliability, mirroring is the best; the cost you pay is in
lost capacity. If capacity and reliability are your main goals, then RAID-
5 is the winner; the cost you pay is in small-write performance. Finally,
if you are always doing sequential I/O and want to maximize capacity,
RAID-5 also makes the most sense.
38.9 Other Interesting RAID Issues
There are a number of other interesting ideas that one could (and per-
haps should) discuss when thinking about RAID. Here are some things
we might eventually write about.
For example, there are many other RAID designs, including Levels 2
and 3 from the original taxonomy, and Level 6 to tolerate multiple disk
faults [C+04]. There is also what the RAID does when a disk fails; some-
times it has a hot spare sitting around to ﬁll in for the failed disk. What
happens to performance under failure, and performance during recon-
struction of the failed disk? There are also more realistic fault models,
to take into account latent sector errors or block corruption [B+08], and
lots of techniques to handle such faults (see the data integrity chapter for
details). Finally, you can even build RAID as a software layer: such soft-
ware RAID systems are cheaper but have other problems, including the
consistent-update problem [DAA05].
38.10 Summary
We have discussed RAID. RAID transforms a number of independent
disks into a large, more capacious, and more reliable single entity; impor-
tantly, it does so transparently, and thus hardware and software above is
relatively oblivious to the change.
There are many possible RAID levels to choose from, and the exact
RAID level to use depends heavily on what is important to the end-user.
For example, mirrored RAID is simple, reliable, and generally provides
good performance but at a high capacity cost. RAID-5, in contrast, is
reliable and better from a capacity standpoint, but performs quite poorly
when there are small writes in the workload. Picking a RAID and setting
its parameters (chunk size, number of disks, etc.) properly for a particular
workload is challenging, and remains more of an art than a science.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
