REDUNDANT ARRAYS OF INEXPENSIVE DISKS (RAIDS)
3
non-volatile memory to buffer writes safely and perhaps even special-
ized logic to perform parity calculations (useful in some RAID levels, as
we will also see below). At a high level, a RAID is very much a special-
ized computer system: it has a processor, memory, and disks; however,
instead of running applications, it runs specialized software designed to
operate the RAID.
38.2 Fault Model
To understand RAID and compare different approaches, we must have
a fault model in mind. RAIDs are designed to detect and recover from
certain kinds of disk faults; thus, knowing exactly which faults to expect
is critical in arriving upon a working design.
The ﬁrst fault model we will assume is quite simple, and has been
called the fail-stop fault model [S84]. In this model, a disk can be in
exactly one of two states: working or failed. With a working disk, all
blocks can be read or written. In contrast, when a disk has failed, we
assume it is permanently lost.
One critical aspect of the fail-stop model is what it assumes about fault
detection. Speciﬁcally, when a disk has failed, we assume that this is
easily detected. For example, in a RAID array, we would assume that the
RAID controller hardware (or software) can immediately observe when a
disk has failed.
Thus, for now, we do not have to worry about more complex “silent”
failures such as disk corruption. We also do not have to worry about a sin-
gle block becoming inaccessible upon an otherwise working disk (some-
times called a latent sector error). We will consider these more complex
(and unfortunately, more realistic) disk faults later.
38.3 How To Evaluate A RAID
As we will soon see, there are a number of different approaches to
building a RAID. Each of these approaches has different characteristics
which are worth evaluating, in order to understand their strengths and
weaknesses.
Speciﬁcally, we will evaluate each RAID design along three axes. The
ﬁrst axis is capacity; given a set of N disks each with B blocks, how much
useful capacity is available to clients of the RAID? Without redundancy,
the answer is N ·B; in contrast, if we have a system that keeps two copies
of each block (called mirroring), we obtain a useful capacity of (N · B)/2.
Different schemes (e.g., parity-based ones) tend to fall in between.
The second axis of evaluation is reliability. How many disk faults can
the given design tolerate? In alignment with our fault model, we assume
only that an entire disk can fail; in later chapters (i.e., on data integrity),
we’ll think about how to handle more complex failure modes.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
