REDUNDANT ARRAYS OF INEXPENSIVE DISKS (RAIDS)
5
ASIDE: THE RAID MAPPING PROBLEM
Before studying the capacity, reliability, and performance characteristics
of the RAID, we ﬁrst present an aside on what we call the mapping prob-
lem. This problem arises in all RAID arrays; simply put, given a logical
block to read or write, how does the RAID know exactly which physical
disk and offset to access?
For these simple RAID levels, we do not need much sophistication in
order to correctly map logical blocks onto their physical locations. Take
the ﬁrst striping example above (chunk size = 1 block = 4KB). In this case,
given a logical block address A, the RAID can easily compute the desired
disk and offset with two simple equations:
Disk
= A % number_of_disks
Offset = A / number_of_disks
Note that these are all integer operations (e.g., 4 / 3 = 1 not 1.33333...).
Let’s see how these equations work for a simple example. Imagine in the
ﬁrst RAID above that a request arrives for block 14. Given that there are
4 disks, this would mean that the disk we are interested in is (14 % 4 = 2):
disk 2. The exact block is calculated as (14 / 4 = 3): block 3. Thus, block
14 should be found on the fourth block (block 3, starting at 0) of the third
disk (disk 2, starting at 0), which is exactly where it is.
You can think about how these equations would be modiﬁed to support
different chunk sizes. Try it! It’s not too hard.
Chunk Sizes
Chunk size mostly affects performance of the array. For example, a small
chunk size implies that many ﬁles will get striped across many disks, thus
increasing the parallelism of reads and writes to a single ﬁle; however, the
positioning time to access blocks across multiple disks increases, because
the positioning time for the entire request is determined by the maximum
of the positioning times of the requests across all drives.
A big chunk size, on the other hand, reduces such intra-ﬁle paral-
lelism, and thus relies on multiple concurrent requests to achieve high
throughput. However, large chunk sizes reduce positioning time; if, for
example, a single ﬁle ﬁts within a chunk and thus is placed on a single
disk, the positioning time incurred while accessing it will just be the po-
sitioning time of a single disk.
Thus, determining the “best” chunk size is hard to do, as it requires a
great deal of knowledge about the workload presented to the disk system
[CL95]. For the rest of this discussion, we will assume that the array uses
a chunk size of a single block (4KB). Most arrays use larger chunk sizes
(e.g., 64 KB), but for the issues we discuss below, the exact chunk size
does not matter; thus we use a single block for the sake of simplicity.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
