6
REDUNDANT ARRAYS OF INEXPENSIVE DISKS (RAIDS)
Back To RAID-0 Analysis
Let us now evaluate the capacity, reliability, and performance of striping.
From the perspective of capacity, it is perfect: given N disks each of size
B blocks, striping delivers N ·B blocks of useful capacity. From the stand-
point of reliability, striping is also perfect, but in the bad way: any disk
failure will lead to data loss. Finally, performance is excellent: all disks
are utilized, often in parallel, to service user I/O requests.
Evaluating RAID Performance
In analyzing RAID performance, one can consider two different perfor-
mance metrics. The ﬁrst is single-request latency. Understanding the la-
tency of a single I/O request to a RAID is useful as it reveals how much
parallelism can exist during a single logical I/O operation. The second
is steady-state throughput of the RAID, i.e., the total bandwidth of many
concurrent requests. Because RAIDs are often used in high-performance
environments, the steady-state bandwidth is critical, and thus will be the
main focus of our analyses.
To understand throughput in more detail, we need to put forth some
workloads of interest. We will assume, for this discussion, that there
are two types of workloads: sequential and random. With a sequential
workload, we assume that requests to the array come in large contigu-
ous chunks; for example, a request (or series of requests) that accesses
1 MB of data, starting at block x and ending at block (x+1 MB), would be
deemed sequential. Sequential workloads are common in many environ-
ments (think of searching through a large ﬁle for a keyword), and thus
are considered important.
For random workloads, we assume that each request is rather small,
and that each request is to a different random location on disk. For exam-
ple, a random stream of requests may ﬁrst access 4KB at logical address
10, then at logical address 550,000, then at 20,100, and so forth. Some im-
portant workloads, such as transactional workloads on a database man-
agement system (DBMS), exhibit this type of access pattern, and thus it is
considered an important workload.
Of course, real workloads are not so simple, and often have a mix
of sequential and random-seeming components as well as behaviors in-
between the two. For simplicity, we just consider these two possibilities.
As you can tell, sequential and random workloads will result in widely
different performance characteristics from a disk. With sequential access,
a disk operates in its most efﬁcient mode, spending little time seeking and
waiting for rotation and most of its time transferring data. With random
access, just the opposite is true: most time is spent seeking and waiting
for rotation and relatively little time is spent transferring data. To capture
this difference in our analysis, we will assume that a disk can transfer
data at S MB/s under a sequential workload, and R MB/s when under a
random workload. In general, S is much greater than R (i.e., S ≫R).
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
