REDUNDANT ARRAYS OF INEXPENSIVE DISKS (RAIDS)
7
To make sure we understand this difference, let’s do a simple exercise.
Speciﬁcally, let’s calculate S and R given the following disk characteris-
tics. Assume a sequential transfer of size 10 MB on average, and a random
transfer of 10 KB on average. Also, assume the following disk character-
istics:
Average seek time
7 ms
Average rotational delay
3 ms
Transfer rate of disk
50 MB/s
To compute S, we need to ﬁrst ﬁgure out how time is spent in a typical
10 MB transfer. First, we spend 7 ms seeking, and then 3 ms rotating.
Finally, transfer begins; 10 MB @ 50 MB/s leads to 1/5th of a second, or
200 ms, spent in transfer. Thus, for each 10 MB request, we spend 210 ms
completing the request. To compute S, we just need to divide:
S = Amount of Data
T ime to access
= 10 MB
210 ms = 47.62 MB/s
As we can see, because of the large time spent transferring data, S is
very near the peak bandwidth of the disk (the seek and rotational costs
have been amortized).
We can compute R similarly. Seek and rotation are the same; we then
compute the time spent in transfer, which is 10 KB @ 50 MB/s, or 0.195
ms.
R = Amount of Data
T ime to access =
10 KB
10.195 ms = 0.981 MB/s
As we can see, R is less than 1 MB/s, and S/R is almost 50.
Back To RAID-0 Analysis, Again
Let’s now evaluate the performance of striping. As we said above, it is
generally good. From a latency perspective, for example, the latency of a
single-block request should be just about identical to that of a single disk;
after all, RAID-0 will simply redirect that request to one of its disks.
From the perspective of steady-state sequential throughput, we’d ex-
pect to get the full bandwidth of the system. Thus, throughput equals
N (the number of disks) multiplied by S (the sequential bandwidth of a
single disk). For a large number of random I/Os, we can again use all of
the disks, and thus obtain N · R MB/s. As we will see below, these val-
ues are both the simplest to calculate and will serve as an upper bound in
comparison with other RAID levels.
38.5 RAID Level 1: Mirroring
Our ﬁrst RAID level beyond striping is known as RAID level 1, or
mirroring. With a mirrored system, we simply make more than one copy
of each block in the system; each copy should be placed on a separate
disk, of course. By doing so, we can tolerate disk failures.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
