REDUNDANT ARRAYS OF INEXPENSIVE DISKS (RAIDS)
9
ASIDE: THE RAID CONSISTENT-UPDATE PROBLEM
Before analyzing RAID-1, let us ﬁrst discuss a problem that arises in
any multi-disk RAID system, known as the consistent-update problem
[DAA05]. The problem occurs on a write to any RAID that has to up-
date multiple disks during a single logical operation. In this case, let us
assume we are considering a mirrored disk array.
Imagine the write is issued to the RAID, and then the RAID decides that
it must be written to two disks, disk 0 and disk 1. The RAID then issues
the write to disk 0, but just before the RAID can issue the request to disk
1, a power loss (or system crash) occurs. In this unfortunate case, let us
assume that the request to disk 0 completed (but clearly the request to
disk 1 did not, as it was never issued).
The result of this untimely power loss is that the two copies of the block
are now inconsistent; the copy on disk 0 is the new version, and the copy
on disk 1 is the old. What we would like to happen is for the state of both
disks to change atomically, i.e., either both should end up as the new
version or neither.
The general way to solve this problem is to use a write-ahead log of some
kind to ﬁrst record what the RAID is about to do (i.e., update two disks
with a certain piece of data) before doing it. By taking this approach, we
can ensure that in the presence of a crash, the right thing will happen; by
running a recovery procedure that replays all pending transactions to the
RAID, we can ensure that no two mirrored copies (in the RAID-1 case)
are out of sync.
One last note: because logging to disk on every write is prohibitively
expensive, most RAID hardware includes a small amount of non-volatile
RAM (e.g., battery-backed) where it performs this type of logging. Thus,
consistent update is provided without the high cost of logging to disk.
worst-case seek and rotational delay of the two requests, and thus (on
average) will be slightly higher than a write to a single disk.
To analyze steady-state throughput, let us start with the sequential
workload. When writing out to disk sequentially, each logical write must
result in two physical writes; for example, when we write logical block
0 (in the ﬁgure above), the RAID internally would write it to both disk
0 and disk 1. Thus, we can conclude that the maximum bandwidth ob-
tained during sequential writing to a mirrored array is ( N
2 · S), or half the
peak bandwidth.
Unfortunately, we obtain the exact same performance during a se-
quential read. One might think that a sequential read could do better,
because it only needs to read one copy of the data, not both. However,
let’s use an example to illustrate why this doesn’t help much. Imagine we
need to read blocks 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7. Let’s say we issue the read of
0 to disk 0, the read of 1 to disk 2, the read of 2 to disk 1, and the read of
3 to disk 3. We continue by issuing reads to 4, 5, 6, and 7 to disks 0, 2, 1,
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
