10
REDUNDANT ARRAYS OF INEXPENSIVE DISKS (RAIDS)
and 3, respectively. One might naively think that because we are utilizing
all disks, we are achieving the full bandwidth of the array.
To see that this is not (necessarily) the case, however, consider the
requests a single disk receives (say disk 0). First, it gets a request for
block 0; then, it gets a request for block 4 (skipping block 2). In fact, each
disk receives a request for every other block. While it is rotating over the
skipped block, it is not delivering useful bandwidth to the client. Thus,
each disk will only deliver half its peak bandwidth. And thus, the se-
quential read will only obtain a bandwidth of ( N
2 · S) MB/s.
Random reads are the best case for a mirrored RAID. In this case, we
can distribute the reads across all the disks, and thus obtain the full pos-
sible bandwidth. Thus, for random reads, RAID-1 delivers N · R MB/s.
Finally, random writes perform as you might expect: N
2 ·R MB/s. Each
logical write must turn into two physical writes, and thus while all the
disks will be in use, the client will only perceive this as half the available
bandwidth. Even though a write to logical block x turns into two parallel
writes to two different physical disks, the bandwidth of many small re-
quests only achieves half of what we saw with striping. As we will soon
see, getting half the available bandwidth is actually pretty good!
38.6 RAID Level 4: Saving Space With Parity
We now present a different method of adding redundancy to a disk ar-
ray known as parity. Parity-based approaches attempt to use less capac-
ity and thus overcome the huge space penalty paid by mirrored systems.
They do so at a cost, however: performance.
Disk 0
Disk 1
Disk 2
Disk 3
Disk 4
0
1
2
3
P0
4
5
6
7
P1
8
9
10
11
P2
12
13
14
15
P3
Figure 38.4: RAID-4 With Parity
Here is an example ﬁve-disk RAID-4 system (Figure 38.4). For each
stripe of data, we have added a single parity block that stores the redun-
dant information for that stripe of blocks. For example, parity block P1
has redundant information that it calculated from blocks 4, 5, 6, and 7.
To compute parity, we need to use a mathematical function that en-
ables us to withstand the loss of any one block from our stripe. It turns
out the simple function XOR does the trick quite nicely. For a given set of
bits, the XOR of all of those bits returns a 0 if there are an even number of
1’s in the bits, and a 1 if there are an odd number of 1’s. For example:
In the ﬁrst row (0,0,1,1), there are two 1’s (C2, C3), and thus XOR of
all of those values will be 0 (P); similarly, in the second row there is only
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
