2
HARD DISK DRIVES
0
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
Spindle
Figure 37.1: A Disk With Just A Single Track
called this the “unwritten contract” of disk drives [SG04]. Speciﬁcally,
one can usually assume that accessing two blocks1 near one-another within
the drive’s address space will be faster than accessing two blocks that are
far apart. One can also usually assume that accessing blocks in a contigu-
ous chunk (i.e., a sequential read or write) is the fastest access mode, and
usually much faster than any more random access pattern.
37.2 Basic Geometry
Let’s start to understand some of the components of a modern disk.
We start with a platter, a circular hard surface on which data is stored
persistently by inducing magnetic changes to it. A disk may have one
or more platters; each platter has 2 sides, each of which is called a sur-
face. These platters are usually made of some hard material (such as
aluminum), and then coated with a thin magnetic layer that enables the
drive to persistently store bits even when the drive is powered off.
The platters are all bound together around the spindle, which is con-
nected to a motor that spins the platters around (while the drive is pow-
ered on) at a constant (ﬁxed) rate. The rate of rotation is often measured in
rotations per minute (RPM), and typical modern values are in the 7,200
RPM to 15,000 RPM range. Note that we will often be interested in the
time of a single rotation, e.g., a drive that rotates at 10,000 RPM means
that a single rotation takes about 6 milliseconds (6 ms).
Data is encoded on each surface in concentric circles of sectors; we call
one such concentric circle a track. A single surface contains many thou-
sands and thousands of tracks, tightly packed together, with hundreds of
tracks ﬁtting into the width of a human hair.
To read and write from the surface, we need a mechanism that allows
us to either sense (i.e., read) the magnetic patterns on the disk or to in-
duce a change in (i.e., write) them. This process of reading and writing is
accomplished by the disk head; there is one such head per surface of the
drive. The disk head is attached to a single disk arm, which moves across
the surface to position the head over the desired track.
1We, and others, often use the terms block and sector interchangeably, assuming the
reader will know exactly what is meant per context. Sorry about this!
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
