HARD DISK DRIVES
11
The second problem is more fundamental: starvation.
Imagine in
our example above if there were a steady stream of requests to the in-
ner track, where the head currently is positioned. Requests to any other
tracks would then be ignored completely by a pure SSTF approach. And
thus the crux of the problem:
CRUX: HOW TO HANDLE DISK STARVATION
How can we implement SSTF-like scheduling but avoid starvation?
Elevator (a.k.a. SCAN or C-SCAN)
The answer to this query was developed some time ago (see [CKR72]
for example), and is relatively straightforward. The algorithm, originally
called SCAN, simply moves back and forth across the disk servicing re-
quests in order across the tracks. Let’s call a single pass across the disk
(from outer to inner tracks, or inner to outer) a sweep. Thus, if a request
comes for a block on a track that has already been serviced on this sweep
of the disk, it is not handled immediately, but rather queued until the next
sweep (in the other direction).
SCAN has a number of variants, all of which do about the same thing.
For example, Coffman et al. introduced F-SCAN, which freezes the queue
to be serviced when it is doing a sweep [CKR72]; this action places re-
quests that come in during the sweep into a queue to be serviced later.
Doing so avoids starvation of far-away requests, by delaying the servic-
ing of late-arriving (but nearer by) requests.
C-SCAN is another common variant, short for Circular SCAN. In-
stead of sweeping in both directions across the disk, the algorithm only
sweeps from outer-to-inner, and then resets at the outer track to begin
again. Doing so is a bit more fair to inner and outer tracks, as pure back-
and-forth SCAN favors the middle tracks, i.e., after servicing the outer
track, SCAN passes through the middle twice before coming back to the
outer track again.
For reasons that should now be clear, the SCAN algorithm (and its
cousins) is sometimes referred to as the elevator algorithm, because it
behaves like an elevator which is either going up or down and not just
servicing requests to ﬂoors based on which ﬂoor is closer. Imagine how
annoying it would be if you were going down from ﬂoor 10 to 1, and
somebody got on at 3 and pressed 4, and the elevator went up to 4 be-
cause it was “closer” than 1! As you can see, the elevator algorithm, when
used in real life, prevents ﬁghts from taking place on elevators. In disks,
it just prevents starvation.
Unfortunately, SCAN and its cousins do not represent the best schedul-
ing technology. In particular, SCAN (or SSTF even) does not actually ad-
here as closely to the principle of SJF as they could. In particular, they
ignore rotation. And thus, another crux:
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
