HARD DISK DRIVES
13
TIP: IT ALWAYS DEPENDS (LIVNY’S LAW)
Almost any question can be answered with “it depends”, as our colleague
Miron Livny always says. However, use with caution, as if you answer
too many questions this way, people will stop asking you questions alto-
gether. For example, somebody asks: “want to go to lunch?” You reply:
“it depends, are you coming along?”
On modern drives, as we saw above, both seek and rotation are roughly
equivalent (depending, of course, on the exact requests), and thus SPTF
is useful and improves performance. However, it is even more difﬁcult
to implement in an OS, which generally does not have a good idea where
track boundaries are or where the disk head currently is (in a rotational
sense). Thus, SPTF is usually performed inside a drive, described below.
Other Scheduling Issues
There are many other issues we do not discuss in this brief description
of basic disk operation, scheduling, and related topics.
One such is-
sue is this: where is disk scheduling performed on modern systems? In
older systems, the operating system did all the scheduling; after looking
through the set of pending requests, the OS would pick the best one, and
issue it to the disk. When that request completed, the next one would be
chosen, and so forth. Disks were simpler then, and so was life.
In modern systems, disks can accommodate multiple outstanding re-
quests, and have sophisticated internal schedulers themselves (which can
implement SPTF accurately; inside the disk controller, all relevant details
are available, including exact head position). Thus, the OS scheduler usu-
ally picks what it thinks the best few requests are (say 16) and issues them
all to disk; the disk then uses its internal knowledge of head position and
detailed track layout information to service said requests in the best pos-
sible (SPTF) order.
Another important related task performed by disk schedulers is I/O
merging. For example, imagine a series of requests to read blocks 33,
then 8, then 34, as in Figure 37.8. In this case, the scheduler should merge
the requests for blocks 33 and 34 into a single two-block request; any re-
ordering that the scheduler does is performed upon the merged requests.
Merging is particularly important at the OS level, as it reduces the num-
ber of requests sent to the disk and thus lowers overheads.
One ﬁnal problem that modern schedulers address is this: how long
should the system wait before issuing an I/O to disk? One might naively
think that the disk, once it has even a single I/O, should immediately
issue the request to the drive; this approach is called work-conserving, as
the disk will never be idle if there are requests to serve. However, research
on anticipatory disk scheduling has shown that sometimes it is better to
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
