HARD DISK DRIVES
3
Head
Arm
0
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
Spindle
Rotates this way
Figure 37.2: A Single Track Plus A Head
37.3 A Simple Disk Drive
Let’s understand how disks work by building up a model one track at
a time. Assume we have a simple disk with a single track (Figure 37.1).
This track has just 12 sectors, each of which is 512 bytes in size (our typical
sector size, recall) and addressed therefore by the numbers 0 through 11.
The single platter we have here rotates around the spindle, to which a
motor is attached.
Of course, the track by itself isn’t too interesting; we want to be able
to read or write those sectors, and thus we need a disk head, attached
to a disk arm, as we now see (Figure 37.2). In the ﬁgure, the disk head,
attached to the end of the arm, is positioned over sector 6, and the surface
is rotating counter-clockwise.
Single-track Latency: The Rotational Delay
To understand how a request would be processed on our simple, one-
track disk, imagine we now receive a request to read block 0. How should
the disk service this request?
In our simple disk, the disk doesn’t have to do much. In particular, it
must just wait for the desired sector to rotate under the disk head. This
wait happens often enough in modern drives, and is an important enough
component of I/O service time, that it has a special name: rotational de-
lay (sometimes rotation delay, though that sounds weird). In the exam-
ple, if the full rotational delay is R, the disk has to incur a rotational delay
of about R
2 to wait for 0 to come under the read/write head (if we start at
6). A worst-case request on this single track would be to sector 5, causing
nearly a full rotational delay in order to service such a request.
Multiple Tracks: Seek Time
So far our disk just has a single track, which is not too realistic; modern
disks of course have many millions. Let’s thus look at an ever-so-slightly
more realistic disk surface, this one with three tracks (Figure 37.3, left).
In the ﬁgure, the head is currently positioned over the innermost track
(which contains sectors 24 through 35); the next track over contains the
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
