HARD DISK DRIVES
7
Cheetah 15K.5
Barracuda
Capacity
300 GB
1 TB
RPM
15,000
7,200
Average Seek
4 ms
9 ms
Max Transfer
125 MB/s
105 MB/s
Platters
4
4
Cache
16 MB
16/32 MB
Connects via
SCSI
SATA
Figure 37.5: Disk Drive Specs: SCSI Versus SATA
comparison between drives (as we will do below), is easily computed
from the time. Simply divide the size of the transfer by the time it took:
RI/O = SizeT ransfer
TI/O
(37.2)
To get a better feel for I/O time, let us perform the following calcu-
lation. Assume there are two workloads we are interested in. The ﬁrst,
known as the random workload, issues small (e.g., 4KB) reads to random
locations on the disk. Random workloads are common in many impor-
tant applications, including database management systems. The second,
known as the sequential workload, simply reads a large number of sec-
tors consecutively from the disk, without jumping around. Sequential
access patterns are quite common and thus important as well.
To understand the difference in performance between random and se-
quential workloads, we need to make a few assumptions about the disk
drive ﬁrst. Let’s look at a couple of modern disks from Seagate. The ﬁrst,
known as the Cheetah 15K.5 [S09b], is a high-performance SCSI drive.
The second, the Barracuda [S09a], is a drive built for capacity. Details on
both are found in Figure 37.5.
As you can see, the drives have quite different characteristics, and
in many ways nicely summarize two important components of the disk
drive market. The ﬁrst is the “high performance” drive market, where
drives are engineered to spin as fast as possible, deliver low seek times,
and transfer data quickly. The second is the “capacity” market, where
cost per byte is the most important aspect; thus, the drives are slower but
pack as many bits as possible into the space available.
From these numbers, we can start to calculate how well the drives
would do under our two workloads outlined above. Let’s start by looking
at the random workload. Assuming each 4 KB read occurs at a random
location on disk, we can calculate how long each such read would take.
On the Cheetah:
Tseek = 4 ms, Trotation = 2 ms, Ttransfer = 30 microsecs
(37.3)
The average seek time (4 milliseconds) is just taken as the average time
reported by the manufacturer; note that a full seek (from one end of the
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
