8
HARD DISK DRIVES
TIP: USE DISKS SEQUENTIALLY
When at all possible, transfer data to and from disks in a sequential man-
ner. If sequential is not possible, at least think about transferring data
in large chunks: the bigger, the better. If I/O is done in little random
pieces, I/O performance will suffer dramatically. Also, users will suffer.
Also, you will suffer, knowing what suffering you have wrought with
your careless random I/Os.
surface to the other) would likely take two or three times longer. The
average rotational delay is calculated from the RPM directly. 15000 RPM
is equal to 250 RPS (rotations per second); thus, each rotation takes 4 ms.
On average, the disk will encounter a half rotation and thus 2 ms is the
average time. Finally, the transfer time is just the size of the transfer over
the peak transfer rate; here it is vanishingly small (30 microseconds; note
that we need 1000 microseconds just to get 1 millisecond!).
Thus, from our equation above, TI/O for the Cheetah roughly equals
6 ms. To compute the rate of I/O, we just divide the size of the transfer
by the average time, and thus arrive at RI/O for the Cheetah under the
random workload of about 0.66 MB/s. The same calculation for the Bar-
racuda yields a TI/O of about 13.2 ms, more than twice as slow, and thus
a rate of about 0.31 MB/s.
Now let’s look at the sequential workload. Here we can assume there
is a single seek and rotation before a very long transfer. For simplicity,
assume the size of the transfer is 100 MB. Thus, TI/O for the Cheetah and
Barracuda is about 800 ms and 950 ms, respectively. The rates of I/O
are thus very nearly the peak transfer rates of 125 MB/s and 105 MB/s,
respectively. Figure 37.6 summarizes these numbers.
Cheetah
Barracuda
RI/O Random
0.66 MB/s
0.31 MB/s
RI/O Sequential
125 MB/s
105 MB/s
Figure 37.6: Disk Drive Performance: SCSI Versus SATA
The ﬁgure shows us a number of important things. First, and most
importantly, there is a huge gap in drive performance between random
and sequential workloads, almost a factor of 200 or so for the Cheetah
and more than a factor 300 difference for the Barracuda. And thus we
arrive at the most obvious design tip in the history of computing.
A second, more subtle point: there is a large difference in performance
between high-end “performance” drives and low-end “capacity” drives.
For this reason (and others), people are often willing to pay top dollar for
the former while trying to get the latter as cheaply as possible.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
