4
SCHEDULING:
THE MULTI-LEVEL FEEDBACK QUEUE
Q2
Q1
Q0
0
50
100
150
200
Figure 8.2: Long-running Job Over Time
Example 1: A Single Long-Running Job
Let’s look at some examples. First, we’ll look at what happens when there
has been a long running job in the system, with a time slice of 10 ms (and
with the allotment set equal to the time slice). Figure 8.2 shows what
happens to this job over time in a three-queue scheduler.
As you can see in the example, the job enters at the highest priority
(Q2). After a single time slice of 10 ms, the scheduler reduces the job’s
priority by one, and thus the job is on Q1. After running at Q1 for a time
slice, the job is ﬁnally lowered to the lowest priority in the system (Q0),
where it remains. Pretty simple, no?
Example 2: Along Came A Short Job
Now let’s look at a more complicated example, and hopefully see how
MLFQ tries to approximate SJF. In this example, there are two jobs: A,
which is a long-running CPU-intensive job, and B, which is a short-running
interactive job. Assume A has been running for some time, and then B ar-
rives. What will happen? Will MLFQ approximate SJF for B?
Figure 8.3 on page 5 (left) plots the results of this scenario. Job A
(shown in black) is running along in the lowest-priority queue (as would
any long-running CPU-intensive jobs); B (shown in gray) arrives at time
T = 100, and thus is inserted into the highest queue; as its run-time is
short (only 20 ms), B completes before reaching the bottom queue, in two
time slices; then A resumes running (at low priority).
From this example, you can hopefully understand one of the major
goals of the algorithm: because it doesn’t know whether a job will be a
short job or a long-running job, it ﬁrst assumes it might be a short job, thus
giving the job high priority. If it actually is a short job, it will run quickly
and complete; if it is not a short job, it will slowly move down the queues,
and thus soon prove itself to be a long-running more batch-like process.
In this manner, MLFQ approximates SJF.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
