SCHEDULING:
THE MULTI-LEVEL FEEDBACK QUEUE
5
Q0
Q1
Q2
0
50
100
150
200
Q0
Q1
Q2
0
50
100
150
200
Figure 8.3: Along Came An Interactive Job: Two Examples
Example 3: What About I/O?
Let’s now look at an example with some I/O. As Rule 4b states above, if a
process gives up the processor before using up its allotment, we keep it at
the same priority level. The intent of this rule is simple: if an interactive
job, for example, is doing a lot of I/O (say by waiting for user input from
the keyboard or mouse), it will relinquish the CPU before its allotment is
complete; in such case, we don’t wish to penalize the job and thus simply
keep it at the same level.
Figure 8.3 (right) shows an example of how this works, with an in-
teractive job B (shown in gray) that needs the CPU only for 1 ms before
performing an I/O competing for the CPU with a long-running batch job
A (shown in black). The MLFQ approach keeps B at the highest prior-
ity because B keeps releasing the CPU; if B is an interactive job, MLFQ
further achieves its goal of running interactive jobs quickly.
Problems With Our Current MLFQ
We thus have a basic MLFQ. It seems to do a fairly good job, sharing the
CPU fairly between long-running jobs, and letting short or I/O-intensive
interactive jobs run quickly. Unfortunately, the approach we have devel-
oped thus far contains serious ﬂaws. Can you think of any?
(This is where you pause and think as deviously as you can)
First, there is the problem of starvation: if there are “too many” in-
teractive jobs in the system, they will combine to consume all CPU time,
and thus long-running jobs will never receive any CPU time (they starve).
We’d like to make some progress on these jobs even in this scenario.
Second, a smart user could rewrite their program to game the sched-
uler. Gaming the scheduler generally refers to the idea of doing some-
thing sneaky to trick the scheduler into giving you more than your fair
share of the resource. The algorithm we have described is susceptible to
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
