6
SCHEDULING:
THE MULTI-LEVEL FEEDBACK QUEUE
TIP: SCHEDULING MUST BE SECURE FROM ATTACK
You might think that a scheduling policy, whether inside the OS itself
(as discussed herein), or in a broader context (e.g., in a distributed stor-
age system’s I/O request handling [Y+18]), is not a security concern, but
in increasingly many cases, it is exactly that. Consider the modern dat-
acenter, in which users from around the world share CPUs, memories,
networks, and storage systems; without care in policy design and en-
forcement, a single user may be able to adversely harm others and gain
advantage for itself. Thus, scheduling policy forms an important part of
the security of a system, and should be carefully constructed.
the following attack: before the allotment is used, issue an I/O operation
(e.g., to a ﬁle) and thus relinquish the CPU; doing so allows you to remain
in the same queue, and thus gain a higher percentage of CPU time. When
done right (e.g., by running for 99% of the allotment before relinquishing
the CPU), a job could nearly monopolize the CPU.
Finally, a program may change its behavior over time; what was CPU-
bound may transition to a phase of interactivity. With our current ap-
proach, such a job would be out of luck and not be treated like the other
interactive jobs in the system.
8.3 Attempt #2: The Priority Boost
Let’s try to change the rules and see if we can avoid the problem of
starvation. What could we do in order to guarantee that CPU-bound jobs
will make some progress (even if it is not much?).
The simple idea here is to periodically boost the priority of all the jobs
in the system. There are many ways to achieve this, but let’s just do some-
thing simple: throw them all in the topmost queue; hence, a new rule:
• Rule 5: After some time period S, move all the jobs in the system
to the topmost queue.
Our new rule solves two problems at once. First, processes are guar-
anteed not to starve: by sitting in the top queue, a job will share the CPU
with other high-priority jobs in a round-robin fashion, and thus eventu-
ally receive service. Second, if a CPU-bound job has become interactive,
the scheduler treats it properly once it has received the priority boost.
Let’s see an example. In this scenario, we just show the behavior of
a long-running job when competing for the CPU with two short-running
interactive jobs. Two graphs are shown in Figure 8.4 (page 7). On the left,
there is no priority boost, and thus the long-running job gets starved once
the two short jobs arrive; on the right, there is a priority boost every 100
ms (which is likely too small of a value, but used here for the example),
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
