SCHEDULING:
THE MULTI-LEVEL FEEDBACK QUEUE
7
Q2
Q1
Q0
0
50
100
150
200
Q2
Q1
Q0
0
50
100
150
200
Figure 8.4: Without (Left) and With (Right) Priority Boost
and thus we at least guarantee that the long-running job will make some
progress, getting boosted to the highest priority every 100 ms and thus
getting to run periodically.
Of course, the addition of the time period S leads to the obvious ques-
tion: what should S be set to? John Ousterhout, a well-regarded systems
researcher [O11], used to call such values in systems voo-doo constants,
because they seemed to require some form of black magic to set them cor-
rectly. Unfortunately, S has that ﬂavor. If it is set too high, long-running
jobs could starve; too low, and interactive jobs may not get a proper share
of the CPU. As such, it is often left to the system administrator to ﬁnd the
right value – or in the modern world, increasingly, to automatic methods
based on machine learning [A+17].
8.4 Attempt #3: Better Accounting
We now have one more problem to solve: how to prevent gaming of
our scheduler? The real culprit here, as you might have guessed, are
Rules 4a and 4b, which let a job retain its priority by relinquishing the
CPU before its allotment expires. So what should we do?
TIP: AVOID VOO-DOO CONSTANTS (OUSTERHOUT’S LAW)
Avoiding voo-doo constants is a good idea whenever possible. Unfor-
tunately, as in the example above, it is often difﬁcult. One could try to
make the system learn a good value, but that too is not straightforward.
The frequent result: a conﬁguration ﬁle ﬁlled with default parameter val-
ues that a seasoned administrator can tweak when something isn’t quite
working correctly. As you can imagine, these are often left unmodiﬁed,
and thus we are left to hope that the defaults work well in the ﬁeld. This
tip brought to you by our old OS professor, John Ousterhout, and hence
we call it Ousterhout’s Law.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
