8
SCHEDULING:
THE MULTI-LEVEL FEEDBACK QUEUE
Q0
Q1
Q2
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Q0
Q1
Q2
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Figure 8.5: Without (Left) and With (Right) Gaming Tolerance
The solution here is to perform better accounting of CPU time at each
level of the MLFQ. Instead of forgetting how much of its allotment a pro-
cess used at a given level when it performs I/O, the scheduler should
keep track; once a process has used its allotment, it is demoted to the next
priority queue. Whether it uses its allotment in one long burst or many
small ones should not matter. We thus rewrite Rules 4a and 4b to the
following single rule:
• Rule 4: Once a job uses up its time allotment at a given level (re-
gardless of how many times it has given up the CPU), its priority is
reduced (i.e., it moves down one queue).
Let’s look at an example. Figure 8.5 shows what happens when a
workload tries to game the scheduler with the old Rules 4a and 4b (on
the left) as well the new anti-gaming Rule 4. Without any protection from
gaming, a process can issue an I/O before its allotment ends, thus stay-
ing at the same priority level, and dominating CPU time. With better
accounting in place (right), regardless of the I/O behavior of the process,
it slowly moves down the queues, and thus cannot gain an unfair share
of the CPU.
8.5 Tuning MLFQ And Other Issues
A few other issues arise with MLFQ scheduling. One big question is
how to parameterize such a scheduler. For example, how many queues
should there be? How big should the time slice be per queue? The al-
lotment? How often should priority be boosted in order to avoid star-
vation and account for changes in behavior? There are no easy answers
to these questions, and thus only some experience with workloads and
subsequent tuning of the scheduler will lead to a satisfactory balance.
For example, most MLFQ variants allow for varying time-slice length
across different queues. The high-priority queues are usually given short
time slices; they are comprised of interactive jobs, after all, and thus
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
