2
Introduction to Operating Systems
If you are taking an undergraduate operating systems course, you
should already have some idea of what a computer program does when
it runs. If not, this book (and the corresponding course) is going to be
difﬁcult — so you should probably stop reading this book, or run to the
nearest bookstore and quickly consume the necessary background mate-
rial before continuing (both Patt & Patel [PP03] and Bryant & O’Hallaron
[BOH10] are pretty great books).
So what happens when a program runs?
Well, a running program does one very simple thing: it executes in-
structions. Many millions (and these days, even billions) of times ev-
ery second, the processor fetches an instruction from memory, decodes
it (i.e., ﬁgures out which instruction this is), and executes it (i.e., it does
the thing that it is supposed to do, like add two numbers together, access
memory, check a condition, jump to a function, and so forth). After it is
done with this instruction, the processor moves on to the next instruction,
and so on, and so on, until the program ﬁnally completes1.
Thus, we have just described the basics of the Von Neumann model of
computing2. Sounds simple, right? But in this class, we will be learning
that while a program runs, a lot of other wild things are going on with
the primary goal of making the system easy to use.
There is a body of software, in fact, that is responsible for making it
easy to run programs (even allowing you to seemingly run many at the
same time), allowing programs to share memory, enabling programs to
interact with devices, and other fun stuff like that. That body of software
1Of course, modern processors do many bizarre and frightening things underneath the
hood to make programs run faster, e.g., executing multiple instructions at once, and even issu-
ing and completing them out of order! But that is not our concern here; we are just concerned
with the simple model most programs assume: that instructions seemingly execute one at a
time, in an orderly and sequential fashion.
2Von Neumann was one of the early pioneers of computing systems. He also did pioneer-
ing work on game theory and atomic bombs, and played in the NBA for six years. OK, one of
those things isn’t true.
1
