12
INTRODUCTION TO OPERATING SYSTEMS
vide virtualization and other OS features without excessive overheads.
These overheads arise in a number of forms: extra time (more instruc-
tions) and extra space (in memory or on disk). We’ll seek solutions that
minimize one or the other or both, if possible. Perfection, however, is not
always attainable, something we will learn to notice and (where appro-
priate) tolerate.
Another goal will be to provide protection between applications, as
well as between the OS and applications.
Because we wish to allow
many programs to run at the same time, we want to make sure that the
malicious or accidental bad behavior of one does not harm others; we
certainly don’t want an application to be able to harm the OS itself (as
that would affect all programs running on the system). Protection is at
the heart of one of the main principles underlying an operating system,
which is that of isolation; isolating processes from one another is the key
to protection and thus underlies much of what an OS must do.
The operating system must also run non-stop; when it fails, all appli-
cations running on the system fail as well. Because of this dependence,
operating systems often strive to provide a high degree of reliability. As
operating systems grow evermore complex (sometimes containing mil-
lions of lines of code), building a reliable operating system is quite a chal-
lenge — and indeed, much of the on-going research in the ﬁeld (including
some of our own work [BS+09, SS+10]) focuses on this exact problem.
Other goals make sense: energy-efﬁciency is important in our increas-
ingly green world; security (an extension of protection, really) against
malicious applications is critical, especially in these highly-networked
times; mobility is increasingly important as OSes are run on smaller and
smaller devices. Depending on how the system is used, the OS will have
different goals and thus likely be implemented in at least slightly differ-
ent ways. However, as we will see, many of the principles we will present
on how to build an OS are useful on a range of different devices.
2.6 Some History
Before closing this introduction, let us present a brief history of how
operating systems developed. Like any system built by humans, good
ideas accumulated in operating systems over time, as engineers learned
what was important in their design. Here, we discuss a few major devel-
opments. For a richer treatment, see Brinch Hansen’s excellent history of
operating systems [BH00].
Early Operating Systems: Just Libraries
In the beginning, the operating system didn’t do too much. Basically,
it was just a set of libraries of commonly-used functions; for example,
instead of having each programmer of the system write low-level I/O
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
