INTRODUCTION TO OPERATING SYSTEMS
13
handling code, the “OS” would provide such APIs, and thus make life
easier for the developer.
Usually, on these old mainframe systems, one program ran at a time,
as controlled by a human operator. Much of what you think a modern
OS would do (e.g., deciding what order to run jobs in) was performed by
this operator. If you were a smart developer, you would be nice to this
operator, so that they might move your job to the front of the queue.
This mode of computing was known as batch processing, as a number
of jobs were set up and then run in a “batch” by the operator. Computers,
as of that point, were not used in an interactive manner, because of cost:
it was simply too expensive to let a user sit in front of the computer and
use it, as most of the time it would just sit idle then, costing the facility
hundreds of thousands of dollars per hour [BH00].
Beyond Libraries: Protection
In moving beyond being a simple library of commonly-used services, op-
erating systems took on a more central role in managing machines. One
important aspect of this was the realization that code run on behalf of the
OS was special; it had control of devices and thus should be treated dif-
ferently than normal application code. Why is this? Well, imagine if you
allowed any application to read from anywhere on the disk; the notion of
privacy goes out the window, as any program could read any ﬁle. Thus,
implementing a ﬁle system (to manage your ﬁles) as a library makes little
sense. Instead, something else was needed.
Thus, the idea of a system call was invented, pioneered by the Atlas
computing system [K+61,L78]. Instead of providing OS routines as a li-
brary (where you just make a procedure call to access them), the idea here
was to add a special pair of hardware instructions and hardware state to
make the transition into the OS a more formal, controlled process.
The key difference between a system call and a procedure call is that
a system call transfers control (i.e., jumps) into the OS while simultane-
ously raising the hardware privilege level. User applications run in what
is referred to as user mode which means the hardware restricts what ap-
plications can do; for example, an application running in user mode can’t
typically initiate an I/O request to the disk, access any physical memory
page, or send a packet on the network. When a system call is initiated
(usually through a special hardware instruction called a trap), the hard-
ware transfers control to a pre-speciﬁed trap handler (that the OS set up
previously) and simultaneously raises the privilege level to kernel mode.
In kernel mode, the OS has full access to the hardware of the system and
thus can do things like initiate an I/O request or make more memory
available to a program. When the OS is done servicing the request, it
passes control back to the user via a special return-from-trap instruction,
which reverts to user mode while simultaneously passing control back to
where the application left off.
© 2008–25, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
