14
INTRODUCTION TO OPERATING SYSTEMS
The Era of Multiprogramming
Where operating systems really took off was in the era of computing be-
yond the mainframe, that of the minicomputer. Classic machines like
the PDP family from Digital Equipment made computers hugely more
affordable; thus, instead of having one mainframe per large organization,
now a smaller collection of people within an organization could likely
have their own computer. Not surprisingly, one of the major impacts of
this drop in cost was an increase in developer activity; more smart people
got their hands on computers and thus made computer systems do more
interesting and beautiful things.
In particular, multiprogramming became commonplace due to the de-
sire to make better use of machine resources. Instead of just running one
job at a time, the OS would load a number of jobs into memory and switch
rapidly between them, thus improving CPU utilization. This switching
was particularly important because I/O devices were slow; having a pro-
gram wait on the CPU while its I/O was being serviced was a waste of
CPU time. Instead, why not switch to another job and run it for a while?
The desire to support multiprogramming and overlap in the presence
of I/O and interrupts forced innovation in the conceptual development of
operating systems along a number of directions. Issues such as memory
protection became important; we wouldn’t want one program to be able
to access the memory of another program. Understanding how to deal
with the concurrency issues introduced by multiprogramming was also
critical; making sure the OS was behaving correctly despite the presence
of interrupts is a great challenge. We will study these issues and related
topics later in the book.
One of the major practical advances of the time was the introduction
of the UNIX operating system, primarily thanks to Ken Thompson (and
Dennis Ritchie) at Bell Labs (yes, the phone company). UNIX took many
good ideas from different operating systems (particularly from Multics
[O72], and some from systems like TENEX [B+72] and the Berkeley Time-
Sharing System [S68]), but made them simpler and easier to use. Soon this
team was shipping tapes containing UNIX source code to people around
the world, many of whom then got involved and added to the system
themselves; see the Aside (next page) for more detail10.
The Modern Era
Beyond the minicomputer came a new type of machine, cheaper, faster,
and for the masses: the personal computer, or PC as we call it today. Led
by Apple’s early machines (e.g., the Apple II) and the IBM PC, this new
breed of machine would soon become the dominant force in computing,
10We’ll use asides and other related text boxes to call attention to various items that don’t
quite ﬁt the main ﬂow of the text. Sometimes, we’ll even use them just to make a joke, because
why not have a little fun along the way? Yes, many of the jokes are bad.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
