INTRODUCTION TO OPERATING SYSTEMS
15
ASIDE: THE IMPORTANCE OF UNIX
It is difﬁcult to overstate the importance of UNIX in the history of oper-
ating systems. Inﬂuenced by earlier systems (in particular, the famous
Multics system from MIT), UNIX brought together many great ideas and
made a system that was both simple and powerful.
Underlying the original “Bell Labs” UNIX was the unifying principle of
building small powerful programs that could be connected together to
form larger workﬂows. The shell, where you type commands, provided
primitives such as pipes to enable such meta-level programming, and
thus it became easy to string together programs to accomplish a big-
ger task.
For example, to ﬁnd lines of a text ﬁle that have the word
“foo” in them, and then to count how many such lines exist, you would
type: grep foo file.txt|wc -l, thus using the grep and wc (word
count) programs to achieve your task.
The UNIX environment was friendly for programmers and developers
alike, also providing a compiler for the new C programming language.
Making it easy for programmers to write their own programs, as well as
share them, made UNIX enormously popular. And it probably helped a
lot that the authors gave out copies for free to anyone who asked, an early
form of open-source software.
Also of critical importance was the accessibility and readability of the
code. Having a beautiful, small kernel written in C invited others to play
with the kernel, adding new and cool features. For example, an enter-
prising group at Berkeley, led by Bill Joy, made a wonderful distribution
(the Berkeley Systems Distribution, or BSD) which had some advanced
virtual memory, ﬁle system, and networking subsystems. Joy later co-
founded Sun Microsystems.
Unfortunately, the spread of UNIX was slowed a bit as companies tried to
assert ownership and proﬁt from it, an unfortunate (but common) result
of lawyers getting involved. Many companies had their own variants:
SunOS from Sun Microsystems, AIX from IBM, HPUX (a.k.a. “H-Pucks”)
from HP, and IRIX from SGI. The legal wrangling among AT&T/Bell
Labs and these other players cast a dark cloud over UNIX, and many
wondered if it would survive, especially as Windows was introduced and
took over much of the PC market...
as their low-cost enabled one machine per desktop instead of a shared
minicomputer per workgroup.
Unfortunately, for operating systems, the PC at ﬁrst represented a
great leap backwards, as early systems forgot (or never knew of) the
lessons learned in the era of minicomputers. For example, early operat-
ing systems such as DOS (the Disk Operating System, from Microsoft)
didn’t think memory protection was important; thus, a malicious (or per-
haps just a poorly-programmed) application could scribble all over mem-
© 2008–25, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
