16
INTRODUCTION TO OPERATING SYSTEMS
ASIDE: AND THEN CAME LINUX
Fortunately for UNIX, a young Finnish hacker named Linus Torvalds de-
cided to write his own version of UNIX which borrowed heavily on the
principles and ideas behind the original system, but not from the code
base, thus avoiding issues of legality. He enlisted help from many others
around the world, took advantage of the sophisticated GNU tools that
already existed [G85], and soon Linux was born (as well as the modern
open-source software movement).
As the internet era came into place, most companies (such as Google,
Amazon, Facebook, and others) chose to run Linux, as it was free and
could be readily modiﬁed to suit their needs; indeed, it is hard to imag-
ine the success of these new companies had such a system not existed.
As smart phones became a dominant user-facing platform, Linux found
a stronghold there too (via Android), for many of the same reasons. And
Steve Jobs took his UNIX-based NeXTStep operating environment with
him to Apple, thus making UNIX popular on desktops (though many
users of Apple technology are probably not even aware of this fact). Thus
UNIX lives on, more important today than ever before. The computing
gods, if you believe in them, should be thanked for this wonderful out-
come.
ory. The ﬁrst generations of the Mac OS (v9 and earlier) took a coopera-
tive approach to job scheduling; thus, a thread that accidentally got stuck
in an inﬁnite loop could take over the entire system, forcing a reboot. The
painful list of OS features missing in this generation of systems is long,
too long for a full discussion here.
Fortunately, after some years of suffering, the old features of mini-
computer operating systems started to ﬁnd their way onto the desktop.
For example, Mac OS X/macOS has UNIX at its core, including all of the
features one would expect from such a mature system. Windows has sim-
ilarly adopted many of the great ideas in computing history, starting in
particular with Windows NT, a great leap forward in Microsoft OS tech-
nology. Even today’s cell phones run operating systems (such as Linux)
that are much more like what a minicomputer ran in the 1970s than what
a PC ran in the 1980s (thank goodness); it is good to see that the good
ideas developed in the heyday of OS development have found their way
into the modern world. Even better is that these ideas continue to de-
velop, providing more features and making modern systems even better
for users and applications.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
