4
INTRODUCTION TO OPERATING SYSTEMS
prompt> ./cpu A & ./cpu B & ./cpu C & ./cpu D &
[1] 7353
[2] 7354
[3] 7355
[4] 7356
A
B
D
C
A
B
D
C
A
...
Figure 2.2: Running Many Programs At Once
Now, let’s do the same thing, but this time, let’s run many different in-
stances of this same program. Figure 2.2 shows the results of this slightly
more complicated example.
Well, now things are getting a little more interesting. Even though we
have only one processor, somehow all four of these programs seem to be
running at the same time! How does this magic happen?4
It turns out that the operating system, with some help from the hard-
ware, is in charge of this illusion, i.e., the illusion that the system has
a very large number of virtual CPUs. Turning a single CPU (or a small
set of them) into a seemingly inﬁnite number of CPUs and thus allowing
many programs to seemingly run at once is what we call virtualizing the
CPU, the focus of the ﬁrst major part of this book.
Of course, to run programs, and stop them, and otherwise tell the OS
which programs to run, there need to be some interfaces (APIs) that you
can use to communicate your desires to the OS. We’ll talk about these
APIs throughout this book; indeed, they are the major way in which most
users interact with operating systems.
You might also notice that the ability to run multiple programs at once
raises all sorts of new questions. For example, if two programs want to
run at a particular time, which should run? This question is answered by
a policy of the OS; policies are used in many different places within an
OS to answer these types of questions, and thus we will study them as
we learn about the basic mechanisms that operating systems implement
(such as the ability to run multiple programs at once). Hence the role of
the OS as a resource manager.
4Note how we ran four processes at the same time, by using the & symbol. Doing so runs a
job in the background in the zsh shell, which means that the user is able to immediately issue
their next command, which in this case is another program to run. If you’re using a different
shell (e.g., tcsh), it works slightly differently; read documentation online for details.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
