8
INTRODUCTION TO OPERATING SYSTEMS
Although you might not understand this example fully at the moment
(and we’ll learn a lot more about it in later chapters, in the section of the
book on concurrency), the basic idea is simple. The main program creates
two threads using Pthread_create()6. You can think of a thread as a
function running within the same memory space as other functions, with
more than one of them active at a time. In this example, each thread starts
running in a routine called worker(), in which it simply increments a
counter in a loop for loops number of times.
Below is a transcript of what happens when we run this program with
the input value for the variable loops set to 1000. The value of loops
determines how many times each of the two workers will increment the
shared counter in a loop. When the program is run with the value of
loops set to 1000, what do you expect the ﬁnal value of counter to be?
prompt> gcc -o threads threads.c -Wall -pthread
prompt> ./threads 1000
Initial value : 0
Final value
: 2000
As you probably guessed, when the two threads are ﬁnished, the ﬁnal
value of the counter is 2000, as each thread incremented the counter 1000
times. Indeed, when the input value of loops is set to N, we would
expect the ﬁnal output of the program to be 2N. But life is not so simple,
as it turns out. Let’s run the same program, but with higher values for
loops, and see what happens:
prompt> ./threads 100000
Initial value : 0
Final value
: 143012
// huh??
prompt> ./threads 100000
Initial value : 0
Final value
: 137298
// what the??
In this run, when we gave an input value of 100,000, instead of getting
a ﬁnal value of 200,000, we instead ﬁrst get 143,012. Then, when we run
the program a second time, we not only again get the wrong value, but
also a different value than the last time. In fact, if you run the program
over and over with high values of loops, you may ﬁnd that sometimes
you even get the right answer! So why is this happening?
As it turns out, the reason for these odd and unusual outcomes relate
to how instructions are executed, which is one at a time. Unfortunately, a
key part of the program above, where the shared counter is incremented,
6The actual call should be to lower-case pthread_create(); the upper-case version is
our own wrapper that calls pthread_create() and makes sure that the return code indi-
cates that the call succeeded. See the code for details.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
