INTRODUCTION TO OPERATING SYSTEMS
9
THE CRUX OF THE PROBLEM:
HOW TO BUILD CORRECT CONCURRENT PROGRAMS
When there are many concurrently executing threads within the same
memory space, how can we build a correctly working program? What
primitives are needed from the OS? What mechanisms should be pro-
vided by the hardware? How can we use them to solve the problems of
concurrency?
takes three instructions: one to load the value of the counter from mem-
ory into a register, one to increment it, and one to store it back into mem-
ory. Because these three instructions do not execute atomically (all at
once), strange things can happen. It is this problem of concurrency that
we will address in great detail in the second part of this book.
2.4 Persistence
The third major theme of the course is persistence. In system memory,
data can be easily lost, as devices such as DRAM store values in a volatile
manner; when power goes away or the system crashes, any data in mem-
ory is lost. Thus, we need hardware and software to be able to store data
persistently; such storage is thus critical to any system as users care a
great deal about their data.
The hardware comes in the form of some kind of input/output or I/O
device; in modern systems, a hard drive is a common repository for long-
lived information, although solid-state drives (SSDs) are making head-
way in this arena as well.
The software in the operating system that usually manages the disk is
called the ﬁle system; it is thus responsible for storing any ﬁles the user
creates in a reliable and efﬁcient manner on the disks of the system.
Unlike the abstractions provided by the OS for the CPU and memory,
the OS does not create a private, virtualized disk for each application.
Rather, it is assumed that often times, users will want to share informa-
tion that is in ﬁles. For example, when writing a C program, you might
ﬁrst use an editor (e.g., Emacs7) to create and edit the C ﬁle (emacs -nw
main.c). Once done, you might use the compiler to turn the source code
into an executable (e.g., gcc -o main main.c). When you’re ﬁnished,
you might run the new executable (e.g., ./main). Thus, you can see how
ﬁles are shared across different processes. First, Emacs creates a ﬁle that
serves as input to the compiler; the compiler uses that input ﬁle to create
a new executable ﬁle (in many steps — take a compiler course for details);
ﬁnally, the new executable is then run. And thus a new program is born!
7You should be using Emacs. If you are using vi, there is probably something wrong with
you. If you are using something that is not a real code editor, that is even worse.
© 2008–25, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
