2
A DIALOGUE ON THE BOOK
Professor: Excellent query! Well, each person needs to ﬁgure this out on their
own, of course, but here is what I would do: go to class, to hear the professor
introduce the material. Then, at the end of every week, read these notes, to help
the ideas sink into your head a bit better. Of course, some time later (hint: before
the exam!), read the notes again to ﬁrm up your knowledge. Of course, your pro-
fessor will no doubt assign some homeworks and projects, so you should do those;
in particular, doing projects where you write real code to solve real problems is
the best way to put the ideas within these notes into action. As Confucius said...
Student: Oh, I know! ’I hear and I forget. I see and I remember. I do and I
understand.’ Or something like that.
Professor: (surprised) How did you know what I was going to say?!
Student: It seemed to follow. Also, I am a big fan of Confucius, and an even
bigger fan of Xunzi, who actually is a better source for this quote1.
Professor: (stunned) Well, I think we are going to get along just ﬁne! Just ﬁne
indeed.
Student: Professor – just one more question, if I may. What are these dialogues
for? I mean, isn’t this just supposed to be a book? Why not present the material
directly?
Professor: Ah, good question, good question! Well, I think it is sometimes
useful to pull yourself outside of a narrative and think a bit; these dialogues are
those times. So you and I are going to work together to make sense of all of these
pretty complex ideas. Are you up for it?
Student: So we have to think? Well, I’m up for that. I mean, what else do I have
to do anyhow? It’s not like I have much of a life outside of this book.
Professor: Me neither, sadly. So let’s get to work!
1According to http://www.barrypopik.com (on, December 19, 2012, entitled “Tell
me and I forget; teach me and I may remember; involve me and I will learn”) Confucian
philosopher Xunzi said “Not having heard something is not as good as having heard it; having
heard it is not as good as having seen it; having seen it is not as good as knowing it; knowing
it is not as good as putting it into practice.” Later on, the wisdom got attached to Confucius
for some reason. Thanks to Jiao Dong (Rutgers) for telling us!
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
