48
Distributed Systems
Distributed systems have changed the face of the world. When your web
browser connects to a web server somewhere else on the planet, it is par-
ticipating in what seems to be a simple form of a client/server distributed
system. When you contact a modern web service such as Google or Face-
book, you are not just interacting with a single machine, however; be-
hind the scenes, these complex services are built from a large collection
(i.e., thousands) of machines, each of which cooperate to provide the par-
ticular service of the site. Thus, it should be clear what makes studying
distributed systems interesting. Indeed, it is worthy of an entire class;
here, we just introduce a few of the major topics.
A number of new challenges arise when building a distributed system.
The major one we focus on is failure; machines, disks, networks, and
software all fail from time to time, as we do not (and likely, will never)
know how to build “perfect” components and systems. However, when
we build a modern web service, we’d like it to appear to clients as if it
never fails; how can we accomplish this task?
THE CRUX:
HOW TO BUILD SYSTEMS THAT WORK WHEN COMPONENTS FAIL
How can we build a working system out of parts that don’t work correctly
all the time? The basic question should remind you of some of the topics
we discussed in RAID storage arrays; however, the problems here tend
to be more complex, as are the solutions.
Interestingly, while failure is a central challenge in constructing dis-
tributed systems, it also represents an opportunity. Yes, machines fail;
but the mere fact that a machine fails does not imply the entire system
must fail. By collecting together a set of machines, we can build a system
that appears to rarely fail, despite the fact that its components fail regu-
larly. This reality is the central beauty and value of distributed systems,
and why they underlie virtually every modern web service you use, in-
cluding Google, Facebook, etc.
1
