2
DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS
TIP: COMMUNICATION IS INHERENTLY UNRELIABLE
In virtually all circumstances, it is good to view communication as a
fundamentally unreliable activity. Bit corruption, down or non-working
links and machines, and lack of buffer space for incoming packets all lead
to the same result: packets sometimes do not reach their destination. To
build reliable services atop such unreliable networks, we must consider
techniques that can cope with packet loss.
Other important issues exist as well. System performance is often crit-
ical; with a network connecting our distributed system together, system
designers must often think carefully about how to accomplish their given
tasks, trying to reduce the number of messages sent and further make
communication as efﬁcient (low latency, high bandwidth) as possible.
Finally, security is also a necessary consideration. When connecting
to a remote site, having some assurance that the remote party is who
they say they are becomes a central problem. Further, ensuring that third
parties cannot monitor or alter an on-going communication between two
others is also a challenge.
In this introduction, we’ll cover the most basic aspect that is new in
a distributed system: communication. Namely, how should machines
within a distributed system communicate with one another? We’ll start
with the most basic primitives available, messages, and build a few higher-
level primitives on top of them. As we said above, failure will be a central
focus: how should communication layers handle failures?
48.1 Communication Basics
The central tenet of modern networking is that communication is fun-
damentally unreliable. Whether in the wide-area Internet, or a local-area
high-speed network such as Inﬁniband, packets are regularly lost, cor-
rupted, or otherwise do not reach their destination.
There are a multitude of causes for packet loss or corruption. Some-
times, during transmission, some bits get ﬂipped due to electrical or other
similar problems. Sometimes, an element in the system, such as a net-
work link or packet router or even the remote host, are somehow dam-
aged or otherwise not working correctly; network cables do accidentally
get severed, at least sometimes.
More fundamental however is packet loss due to lack of buffering
within a network switch, router, or endpoint. Speciﬁcally, even if we
could guarantee that all links worked correctly, and that all the compo-
nents in the system (switches, routers, end hosts) were up and running as
expected, loss is still possible, for the following reason. Imagine a packet
arrives at a router; for the packet to be processed, it must be placed in
memory somewhere within the router. If many such packets arrive at
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
