DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS
11
For the server, code is also generated. The steps taken on the server
are as follows:
• Unpack the message. This step, called unmarshaling or deserial-
ization, takes the information out of the incoming message. The
function identiﬁer and arguments are extracted.
• Call into the actual function. Finally! We have reached the point
where the remote function is actually executed. The RPC runtime
calls into the function speciﬁed by the ID and passes in the desired
arguments.
• Package the results. The return argument(s) are marshaled back
into a single reply buffer.
• Send the reply. The reply is ﬁnally sent to the caller.
There are a few other important issues to consider in a stub compiler.
The ﬁrst is complex arguments, i.e., how does one package and send
a complex data structure? For example, when one calls the write()
system call, one passes in three arguments: an integer ﬁle descriptor, a
pointer to a buffer, and a size indicating how many bytes (starting at the
pointer) are to be written. If an RPC package is passed a pointer, it needs
to be able to ﬁgure out how to interpret that pointer, and perform the
correct action. Usually this is accomplished through either well-known
types (e.g., a buffer t that is used to pass chunks of data given a size,
which the RPC compiler understands), or by annotating the data struc-
tures with more information, enabling the compiler to know which bytes
need to be serialized.
Another important issue is the organization of the server with regards
to concurrency. A simple server just waits for requests in a simple loop,
and handles each request one at a time. However, as you might have
guessed, this can be grossly inefﬁcient; if one RPC call blocks (e.g., on
I/O), server resources are wasted. Thus, most servers are constructed in
some sort of concurrent fashion. A common organization is a thread pool.
In this organization, a ﬁnite set of threads are created when the server
starts; when a message arrives, it is dispatched to one of these worker
threads, which then does the work of the RPC call, eventually replying;
during this time, a main thread keeps receiving other requests, and per-
haps dispatching them to other workers. Such an organization enables
concurrent execution within the server, thus increasing its utilization; the
standard costs arise as well, mostly in programming complexity, as the
RPC calls may now need to use locks and other synchronization primi-
tives in order to ensure their correct operation.
Run-Time Library
The run-time library handles much of the heavy lifting in an RPC system;
most performance and reliability issues are handled herein. We’ll now
discuss some of the major challenges in building such a run-time layer.
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
