12
DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS
One of the ﬁrst challenges we must overcome is how to locate a re-
mote service. This problem, of naming, is a common one in distributed
systems, and in some sense goes beyond the scope of our current discus-
sion. The simplest of approaches build on existing naming systems, e.g.,
hostnames and port numbers provided by current internet protocols. In
such a system, the client must know the hostname or IP address of the
machine running the desired RPC service, as well as the port number it is
using (a port number is just a way of identifying a particular communica-
tion activity taking place on a machine, allowing multiple communication
channels at once). The protocol suite must then provide a mechanism to
route packets to a particular address from any other machine in the sys-
tem. For a good discussion of naming, you’ll have to look elsewhere, e.g.,
read about DNS and name resolution on the Internet, or better yet just
read the excellent chapter in Saltzer and Kaashoek’s book [SK09].
Once a client knows which server it should talk to for a particular re-
mote service, the next question is which transport-level protocol should
RPC be built upon. Speciﬁcally, should the RPC system use a reliable pro-
tocol such as TCP/IP, or be built upon an unreliable communication layer
such as UDP/IP?
Naively the choice would seem easy: clearly we would like for a re-
quest to be reliably delivered to the remote server, and clearly we would
like to reliably receive a reply. Thus we should choose the reliable trans-
port protocol such as TCP, right?
Unfortunately, building RPC on top of a reliable communication layer
can lead to a major inefﬁciency in performance. Recall from the discus-
sion above how reliable communication layers work: with acknowledg-
ments plus timeout/retry. Thus, when the client sends an RPC request
to the server, the server responds with an acknowledgment so that the
caller knows the request was received. Similarly, when the server sends
the reply to the client, the client acks it so that the server knows it was
received. By building a request/response protocol (such as RPC) on top
of a reliable communication layer, two “extra” messages are sent.
For this reason, many RPC packages are built on top of unreliable com-
munication layers, such as UDP. Doing so enables a more efﬁcient RPC
layer, but does add the responsibility of providing reliability to the RPC
system. The RPC layer achieves the desired level of responsibility by us-
ing timeout/retry and acknowledgments much like we described above.
By using some form of sequence numbering, the communication layer
can guarantee that each RPC takes place exactly once (in the case of no
failure), or at most once (in the case where failure arises).
Other Issues
There are some other issues an RPC run-time must handle as well. For
example, what happens when a remote call takes a long time to com-
plete? Given our timeout machinery, a long-running remote call might
appear as a failure to a client, thus triggering a retry, and thus the need
for some care here. One solution is to use an explicit acknowledgment
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
