14
DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS
One issue that many systems handle is that of byte ordering. As you
may know, some machines store values in what is known as big endian
ordering, whereas others use little endian ordering. Big endian stores
bytes (say, of an integer) from most signiﬁcant to least signiﬁcant bits,
much like Arabic numerals; little endian does the opposite.
Both are
equally valid ways of storing numeric information; the question here is
how to communicate between machines of different endianness.
RPC packages often handle this by providing a well-deﬁned endi-
anness within their message formats. In Sun’s RPC package, the XDR
(eXternal Data Representation) layer provides this functionality. If the
machine sending or receiving a message matches the endianness of XDR,
messages are just sent and received as expected. If, however, the machine
communicating has a different endianness, each piece of information in
the message must be converted. Thus, the difference in endianness can
have a small performance cost.
A ﬁnal issue is whether to expose the asynchronous nature of com-
munication to clients, thus enabling some performance optimizations.
Speciﬁcally, typical RPCs are made synchronously, i.e., when a client
issues the procedure call, it must wait for the procedure call to return
before continuing. Because this wait can be long, and because the client
may have other work it could be doing, some RPC packages enable you
to invoke an RPC asynchronously. When an asynchronous RPC is is-
sued, the RPC package sends the request and returns immediately; the
client is then free to do other work, such as call other RPCs or other use-
ful computation. The client at some point will want to see the results of
the asynchronous RPC; it thus calls back into the RPC layer, telling it to
wait for outstanding RPCs to complete, at which point return arguments
can be accessed.
48.6 Summary
We have seen the introduction of a new topic, distributed systems, and
its major issue: how to handle failure which is now a commonplace event.
As they say inside of Google, when you have just your desktop machine,
failure is rare; when you’re in a data center with thousands of machines,
failure is happening all the time. The key to any distributed system is
how you deal with that failure.
We have also seen that communication forms the heart of any dis-
tributed system. A common abstraction of that communication is found
in remote procedure call (RPC), which enables clients to make remote
calls on servers; the RPC package handles all of the gory details, includ-
ing timeout/retry and acknowledgment, in order to deliver a service that
closely mirrors a local procedure call.
The best way to really understand an RPC package is of course to use
one yourself. Sun’s RPC system, using the stub compiler rpcgen, is an
older one; Google’s gRPC and Apache Thrift are modern takes on the
same. Try one out, and see what all the fuss is about.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
