16
DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS
Homework (Code)
In this section, we’ll write some simple communication code to get
you familiar with the task of doing so. Have fun!
Questions
1. Using the code provided in the chapter, build a simple UDP-based
server and client.
The server should receive messages from the
client, and reply with an acknowledgment. In this ﬁrst attempt,
do not add any retransmission or robustness (assume that commu-
nication works perfectly). Run this on a single machine for testing;
later, run it on two different machines.
2. Turn your code into a communication library. Speciﬁcally, make
your own API, with send and receive calls, as well as other API
calls as needed. Rewrite your client and server to use your library
instead of raw socket calls.
3. Add reliable communication to your burgeoning communication li-
brary, in the form of timeout/retry. Speciﬁcally, your library should
make a copy of any message that it is going to send. When sending
it, it should start a timer, so it can track how long it has been since
the message was sent. On the receiver, the library should acknowl-
edge received messages. The client send should block when send-
ing, i.e., it should wait until the message has been acknowledged
before returning. It should also be willing to retry sending indef-
initely. The maximum message size should be that of the largest
single message you can send with UDP. Finally, be sure to perform
timeout/retry efﬁciently by putting the caller to sleep until either
an ack arrives or the transmission times out; do not spin and waste
the CPU!
4. Make your library more efﬁcient and feature-ﬁlled. First, add very-
large message transfer. Speciﬁcally, although the network limit max-
imum message size, your library should take a message of arbitrar-
ily large size and transfer it from client to server. The client should
transmit these large messages in pieces to the server; the server-side
library code should assemble received fragments into the contigu-
ous whole, and pass the single large buffer to the waiting server
code.
5. Do the above again, but with high performance. Instead of sending
each fragment one at a time, you should rapidly send many pieces,
thus allowing the network to be much more highly utilized. To do
so, carefully mark each piece of the transfer so that the re-assembly
on the receiver side does not scramble the message.
6. A ﬁnal implementation challenge: asynchronous message send with
in-order delivery. That is, the client should be able to repeatedly call
send to send one message after the other; the receiver should call re-
ceive and get each message in order, reliably; many messages from
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
