DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS
5
TIP: USE CHECKSUMS FOR INTEGRITY
Checksums are a commonly-used method to detect corruption quickly
and effectively in modern systems. A simple checksum is addition: just
sum up the bytes of a chunk of data; of course, many other more sophis-
ticated checksums have been created, including basic cyclic redundancy
codes (CRCs), the Fletcher checksum, and many others [MK09].
In networking, checksums are used as follows. Before sending a message
from one machine to another, compute a checksum over the bytes of the
message. Then send both the message and the checksum to the desti-
nation. At the destination, the receiver computes a checksum over the
incoming message as well; if this computed checksum matches the sent
checksum, the receiver can feel some assurance that the data likely did
not get corrupted during transmission.
Checksums can be evaluated along a number of different axes. Effective-
ness is one primary consideration: does a change in the data lead to a
change in the checksum? The stronger the checksum, the harder it is for
changes in the data to go unnoticed. Performance is the other important
criterion: how costly is the checksum to compute? Unfortunately, effec-
tiveness and performance are often at odds, meaning that checksums of
high quality are often expensive to compute. Life, again, isn’t perfect.
in the UDP/IP networking stack available today on virtually all modern
systems. To use UDP, a process uses the sockets API in order to create a
communication endpoint; processes on other machines (or on the same
machine) send UDP datagrams to the original process (a datagram is a
ﬁxed-sized message up to some max size).
Figures 48.1 and 48.2 show a simple client and server built on top of
UDP/IP. The client can send a message to the server, which then responds
with a reply. With this small amount of code, you have all you need to
begin building distributed systems!
UDP is a great example of an unreliable communication layer. If you
use it, you will encounter situations where packets get lost (dropped) and
thus do not reach their destination; the sender is never thus informed of
the loss. However, that does not mean that UDP does not guard against
any failures at all. For example, UDP includes a checksum to detect some
forms of packet corruption.
However, because many applications simply want to send data to a
destination and not worry about packet loss, we need more. Speciﬁcally,
we need reliable communication on top of an unreliable network.
48.3 Reliable Communication Layers
To build a reliable communication layer, we need some new mech-
anisms and techniques to handle packet loss. Let us consider a simple
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
