DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS
7
Sender
[send message;
 keep copy;
 set timer]
Receiver
[receive message]
[send ack]
...
 (waiting for ack)
...
[timer goes off;
 set timer/retry]
[receive message]
[send ack]
[receive ack;
 delete copy/timer off]
Figure 48.5: Message Plus Acknowledgment: Dropped Reply
Unfortunately, timeout/retry in this form is not quite enough. Figure
48.5 shows an example of packet loss which could lead to trouble. In this
example, it is not the original message that gets lost, but the acknowledg-
ment. From the perspective of the sender, the situation seems the same:
no ack was received, and thus a timeout and retry are in order. But from
the perspective of the receiver, it is quite different: now the same message
has been received twice! While there may be cases where this is OK, in
general it is not; imagine what would happen when you are downloading
a ﬁle and extra packets are repeated inside the download. Thus, when we
are aiming for a reliable message layer, we also usually want to guarantee
that each message is received exactly once by the receiver.
To enable the receiver to detect duplicate message transmission, the
sender has to identify each message in some unique way, and the receiver
needs some way to track whether it has already seen each message be-
fore. When the receiver sees a duplicate transmission, it simply acks the
message, but (critically) does not pass the message to the application that
receives the data. Thus, the sender receives the ack but the message is not
received twice, preserving the exactly-once semantics mentioned above.
There are myriad ways to detect duplicate messages. For example, the
sender could generate a unique ID for each message; the receiver could
track every ID it has ever seen. This approach could work, but it is pro-
hibitively costly, requiring unbounded memory to track all IDs.
A simpler approach, requiring little memory, solves this problem, and
the mechanism is known as a sequence counter. With a sequence counter,
the sender and receiver agree upon a start value (e.g., 1) for a counter
that each side will maintain. Whenever a message is sent, the current
value of the counter is sent along with the message; this counter value
(N) serves as an ID for the message. After the message is sent, the sender
then increments the value (to N + 1).
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
