8
DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS
TIP: BE CAREFUL SETTING THE TIMEOUT VALUE
As you can probably guess from the discussion, setting the timeout value
correctly is an important aspect of using timeouts to retry message sends.
If the timeout is too small, the sender will re-send messages needlessly,
thus wasting CPU time on the sender and network resources. If the time-
out is too large, the sender waits too long to re-send and thus perceived
performance at the sender is reduced. The “right” value, from the per-
spective of a single client and server, is thus to wait just long enough to
detect packet loss but no longer.
However, there are often more than just a single client and server in a
distributed system, as we will see in future chapters. In a scenario with
many clients sending to a single server, packet loss at the server may be
an indicator that the server is overloaded. If true, clients might retry in
a different adaptive manner; for example, after the ﬁrst timeout, a client
might increase its timeout value to a higher amount, perhaps twice as
high as the original value. Such an exponential back-off scheme, pio-
neered in the early Aloha network and adopted in early Ethernet [A70],
avoids situations where resources are being overloaded by an excess of
re-sends. Robust systems strive to avoid overload of this nature.
The receiver uses its counter value as the expected value for the ID
of the incoming message from that sender. If the ID of a received mes-
sage (N) matches the receiver’s counter (also N), it acks the message and
passes it up to the application; in this case, the receiver concludes this
is the ﬁrst time this message has been received. The receiver then incre-
ments its counter (to N + 1), and waits for the next message.
If the ack is lost, the sender will timeout and re-send message N. This
time, the receiver’s counter is higher (N +1), and thus the receiver knows
it has already received this message. Thus it acks the message but does
not pass it up to the application. In this simple manner, sequence counters
can be used to avoid duplicates.
The most commonly used reliable communication layer is known as
TCP/IP, or just TCP for short. TCP has a great deal more sophistication
than we describe above, including machinery to handle congestion in the
network [VJ88], multiple outstanding requests, and hundreds of other
small tweaks and optimizations. Read more about it if you’re curious;
better yet, take a networking course and learn that material well.
48.4 Communication Abstractions
Given a basic messaging layer, we now approach the next question
in this chapter: what abstraction of communication should we use when
building a distributed system?
The systems community developed a number of approaches over the
years. One body of work took OS abstractions and extended them to
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
