DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS
9
operate in a distributed environment. For example, distributed shared
memory (DSM) systems enable processes on different machines to share
a large, virtual address space [LH89]. This abstraction turns a distributed
computation into something that looks like a multi-threaded application;
the only difference is that these threads run on different machines instead
of different processors within the same machine.
The way most DSM systems work is through the virtual memory sys-
tem of the OS. When a page is accessed on one machine, two things can
happen. In the ﬁrst (best) case, the page is already local on the machine,
and thus the data is fetched quickly. In the second case, the page is cur-
rently on some other machine. A page fault occurs, and the page fault
handler sends a message to some other machine to fetch the page, install
it in the page table of the requesting process, and continue execution.
This approach is not widely in use today for a number of reasons. The
largest problem for DSM is how it handles failure. Imagine, for example,
if a machine fails; what happens to the pages on that machine? What if
the data structures of the distributed computation are spread across the
entire address space? In this case, parts of these data structures would
suddenly become unavailable. Dealing with failure when parts of your
address space go missing is hard; imagine a linked list where a “next”
pointer points into a portion of the address space that is gone. Yikes!
A further problem is performance. One usually assumes, when writ-
ing code, that access to memory is cheap. In DSM systems, some accesses
are inexpensive, but others cause page faults and expensive fetches from
remote machines. Thus, programmers of such DSM systems had to be
very careful to organize computations such that almost no communica-
tion occurred at all, defeating much of the point of such an approach.
Though much research was performed in this space, there was little prac-
tical impact; nobody builds reliable distributed systems using DSM today.
48.5 Remote Procedure Call (RPC)
While OS abstractions turned out to be a poor choice for building dis-
tributed systems, programming language (PL) abstractions make much
more sense. The most dominant abstraction is based on the idea of a re-
mote procedure call, or RPC for short [BN84]1.
Remote procedure call packages all have a simple goal: to make the
process of executing code on a remote machine as simple and straight-
forward as calling a local function. Thus, to a client, a procedure call is
made, and some time later, the results are returned. The server simply
deﬁnes some routines that it wishes to export. The rest of the magic is
handled by the RPC system, which in general has two pieces: a stub gen-
erator (sometimes called a protocol compiler), and the run-time library.
We’ll now take a look at each of these pieces in more detail.
1In modern programming languages, we might instead say remote method invocation
(RMI), but who likes these languages anyhow, with all of their fancy objects?
© 2008–23, ARPACI-DUSSEAU
THREE
EASY
PIECES
