10
DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS
Stub Generator
The stub generator’s job is simple: to remove some of the pain of packing
function arguments and results into messages by automating it. Numer-
ous beneﬁts arise: one avoids, by design, the simple mistakes that occur
in writing such code by hand; further, a stub compiler can perhaps opti-
mize such code and thus improve performance.
The input to such a compiler is simply the set of calls a server wishes
to export to clients. Conceptually, it could be something as simple as this:
interface {
int func1(int arg1);
int func2(int arg1, int arg2);
};
The stub generator takes an interface like this and generates a few dif-
ferent pieces of code. For the client, a client stub is generated, which
contains each of the functions speciﬁed in the interface; a client program
wishing to use this RPC service would link with this client stub and call
into it in order to make RPCs.
Internally, each of these functions in the client stub do all of the work
needed to perform the remote procedure call. To the client, the code just
appears as a function call (e.g., the client calls func1(x)); internally, the
code in the client stub for func1() does this:
• Create a message buffer. A message buffer is usually just a con-
tiguous array of bytes of some size.
• Pack the needed information into the message buffer. This infor-
mation includes some kind of identiﬁer for the function to be called,
as well as all of the arguments that the function needs (e.g., in our
example above, one integer for func1). The process of putting all
of this information into a single contiguous buffer is sometimes re-
ferred to as the marshaling of arguments or the serialization of the
message.
• Send the message to the destination RPC server. The communi-
cation with the RPC server, and all of the details required to make
it operate correctly, are handled by the RPC run-time library, de-
scribed further below.
• Wait for the reply. Because function calls are usually synchronous,
the call will wait for its completion.
• Unpack return code and other arguments. If the function just re-
turns a single return code, this process is straightforward; however,
more complex functions might return more complex results (e.g., a
list), and thus the stub might need to unpack those as well. This
step is also known as unmarshaling or deserialization.
• Return to the caller. Finally, just return from the client stub back
into the client code.
OPERATING
SYSTEMS
[VERSION 1.10]
WWW.OSTEP.ORG
